# § 37-1-5. Department to succeed to applicable rules and regulations; transfer of rights, responsibilities, duties, personnel, and property

(a) The Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities shall succeed to all rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and administrative orders of the Department of Human Resources that are in effect on June 30, 2009, or scheduled to go into effect on or after July 1, 2009, and which relate to the functions transferred to the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities pursuant to Code Section 37-1-4 and shall further succeed to any rights, privileges, entitlements, obligations, and duties of the Department of Human Resources that are in effect on June 30, 2009, which relate to the functions transferred to the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities pursuant to Code Section 37-1-4. Such rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and administrative orders shall remain in effect until amended, repealed, superseded, or nullified by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities by proper authority or as otherwise provided by law.
(b) The rights, privileges, entitlements, and duties of parties to contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions entered into before July 1, 2009, by the Department of Human Resources which relate to the functions transferred to the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities pursuant to Code Section 37-1-4 shall continue to exist; and none of these rights, privileges, entitlements, and duties are impaired or diminished by reason of the transfer of the functions to the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities. In all such instances, the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities shall be substituted for the Department of Human Resources, and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities shall succeed to the rights and duties under such contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions.
(c) All persons employed by the Department of Human Resources in capacities which relate to the functions transferred to the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities pursuant to Code Section 37-1-4 on June 30, 2009, shall, on July 1, 2009, become employees of the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities in similar capacities, as determined by the commissioner of behavioral health and developmental disabilities. Such employees shall be subject to the employment practices and policies of the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities on and after July 1, 2009, but the compensation and benefits of such transferred employees shall not be reduced as a result of such transfer. Employees who are subject to the rules of the State Personnel Board and who are transferred to the department shall retain all existing rights under such rules. Retirement rights of such transferred employees existing under the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia or other public retirement systems on June 30, 2009, shall not be impaired or interrupted by the transfer of such employees and membership in any such retirement system shall continue in the same status possessed by the transferred employees on June 30, 2009. Accrued annual and sick leave possessed by said employees on June 30, 2009, shall be retained by said employees as employees of the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities.
(d) On July 1, 2009, the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities shall receive custody of the state owned real property in the custody of the Department of Human Resources on June 30, 2009, and which pertains to the functions transferred to the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities pursuant to Code Section 37-1-4.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-56, eff. 7/1/2012.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
