# § 37-1-113. [Repealed effective 6/30/2025] Meetings; prior approval of agenda; quorum; allowances and reimbursements

(a) The commission may conduct meetings at such places and times as it deems necessary or convenient to enable it to fully and effectively exercise its powers, perform its duties, and accomplish the objectives and purposes of this article. The commission shall hold meetings at the call of the chairperson. The commission shall meet not less than twice every year.
(b) Until the conclusion of the settlement agreement with the United States Department of Justice, the agenda for any meeting of the commission shall be submitted to the Governor's Executive Counsel for prior approval.
(c) A quorum for transacting business shall be a majority of the members of the commission.
(d) Legislative members of the commission shall receive the allowances provided for in Code Section 28-1-8. Nonlegislative members shall receive a daily expense allowance in the amount specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21 as well as the mileage or transportation allowance authorized for state employees. Members of the commission who are state officials, other than legislative members, or state employees shall receive no compensation for their services on the commission, but shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties as members of the commission in the same manner as they are reimbursed for expenses in their capacities as state officials or state employees. The funds necessary for the reimbursement of the expenses of state officials, other than legislative members, and state employees shall come from funds appropriated to or otherwise available to their respective departments. All other funds necessary to carry out the provisions of this article shall come from funds appropriated to the Senate and the House of Representatives.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 216,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
