# § 37-1-114. [Repealed effective 6/30/2025] Duties and powers; use of third parties

(a) The commission shall have the following duties:
  (1) To review the conditions, needs, issues, and problems related to behavioral health issues in this state and to recommend any action, including proposed changes to rules, regulations, policies, and programs, and proposed legislation which the commission deems necessary or appropriate;
  (2) To evaluate and consider the best practices, experiences, and results of legislation in other states with regard to the behavioral health system with respect to both children and adults; and
  (3) To annually report on the work of the commission to the Governor, President of the Senate, and Speaker of the House of Representatives.
(b) The commission shall have the following powers:
  (1) To evaluate how the laws, rules, regulations, policies, and programs affecting the behavioral health system in this state are working;
  (2) To request and receive data from and review the records of appropriate state agencies and courts to the greatest extent allowed by state and federal law;
  (3) To accept public or private grants, devises, and bequests;
  (4) To authorize entering into contracts or agreements through the commission's chairperson necessary or incidental to the performance of its duties;
  (5) To establish rules and procedures for conducting the business of the commission; and
  (6) To conduct studies, hold public meetings, collect data, or take any other action the commission deems necessary to fulfill its responsibilities.
(c) The commission shall be authorized to retain the services of attorneys, consultants, subject matter experts, economists, budget analysts, data analysts, statisticians, and other individuals or organizations as determined appropriate by the commission. Such services may be obtained through a request for proposal process conducted through the Office of Planning and Budget; provided, however, that any final selection shall be approved by the commission.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 216,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
