# § 37-1-3. Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities; members; removal

(a) There is created the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities which shall establish the general policy to be followed by the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities. The powers, functions, and duties of the Board of Human Resources as they existed on June 30, 2009, with regard to the Division of Mental Health, Developmental Disabilities, and Addictive Diseases are transferred to the Board of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities effective July 1, 2009. The board shall consist of nine members appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate.
(b) The Governor shall designate the initial terms of the members of the board as follows: three members shall be appointed for one year; three members shall be appointed for two years; and three members shall be appointed for three years. Thereafter, all succeeding appointments shall be for three-year terms from the expiration of the previous term.
(c) Vacancies in office shall be filled by appointment by the Governor in the same manner as the appointment to the position on the board which becomes vacant. An appointment to fill a vacancy other than by expiration of a term of office shall be for the balance of the unexpired term.
(d) Members of the board may be removed from office under the same conditions for removal from office of members of professional licensing boards provided in Code Section 43-1-17.
(e) There shall be a chairperson of the board elected by and from the membership of the board who shall be the presiding officer of the board.
(f) The members of the board shall receive a per diem allowance and expenses as shall be set and approved by the Office of Planning and Budget in conformance with rates and allowances set for members of other state boards.

## History

Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
