# § 37-1-124. Independent evaluations of the programs; sharing and reporting of information

(a) Prior to the commencement of funding under the assisted outpatient grant program, the department shall contract with an independent organization, entity, or consultant possessing expertise in the evaluation of community based mental health programs and policy to evaluate:
  (1) The effectiveness of the assisted outpatient grant program in reducing hospitalization and criminal justice interactions among vulnerable individuals with mental health or substance use disorders;
  (2) The cost-effectiveness of the assisted outpatient grant program, including its impact on spending within the public mental health system on the treatment of individuals receiving assisted outpatient treatment and spending within the criminal justice system on the arrest, incarceration, and prosecution of such individuals;
  (3) Differences in implementation of the assisted outpatient treatment model among the grantees and the impact of such differences on program outcomes;
  (4) The impact of the assisted outpatient grant program on the mental health system at large, including any unintended impacts; and
  (5) The perceptions of assisted outpatient treatment and its effectiveness among participating individuals, family members of participating individuals, mental health providers and program staff, and participating probate court judges.
(b) As a condition for participation in the grant program, the department shall require each grantee to agree to share such program information and data with the contracted research organization, entity, or consultant as the department may require, and to make reasonable accommodations for such organization, entity, or consultant to have access to the grant site and individuals. The department shall further ensure that the contracted research organization, entity, or consultant is able to perform its functions consistent with all state and federal restrictions on the privacy of personal health information.
(c) In contracting with the research organization, entity, or consultant, the department shall require such organization, entity, or consultant to submit a final report on the effectiveness of the assisted outpatient grant program to the Governor, the chairpersons of the House Committee on Health and the Senate Health and Human Services Committee, and the Office of Health Strategy and Coordination no later than December 31, 2025. The department may also require the organization, entity, or consultant to report interim or provisional findings to the department at earlier dates.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 587,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2022.
