# § 37-1-112. [Repealed effective 6/30/2025] Members; terms; officers; operational matters

(a) The commission shall be composed of 24 members as follows:
  (1) The following members appointed by the Governor:
    (A) A chairperson;
    (B) A psychiatrist who specializes in children and adolescents;
    (C) A psychiatrist who specializes in adults;
    (D) A health care provider with expertise in traumatic brain injuries;
    (E) A state education official with broad experience in education policy;
    (F) A chief executive officer of a mental health facility;
    (G) A forensic psychologist;
    (H) A local education official; and
    (I) A professional who specializes in substance abuse and addiction;
  (2) The following members appointed by the President of the Senate:
    (A) Two members of the Senate;
    (B) A sheriff;
    (C) A licensed clinical behavioral health professional;
    (D) A behavioral health advocate; and
    (E) A representative of a community service board;
  (3) The following members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives:
    (A) Two members of the House of Representatives;
    (B) A police chief;
    (C) A licensed clinical behavioral health professional;
    (D) A behavioral health advocate; and
    (E) A judge who presides in an accountability court, as defined in Code Section 15-1-18; and
  (4) The following members appointed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Georgia:
    (A) One Justice of the Supreme Court of Georgia; and
    (B) Two judges.
(b) Each nonlegislative member of the commission shall be appointed to serve for a term of two years or until his or her successor is duly appointed. Legislative members of the commission shall serve until completion of their current terms of office. Any member may be appointed to succeed himself or herself on the commission. If a member of the commission is an elected or appointed official, such member, or his or her designee, shall be removed from the commission if such member no longer serves as such elected or appointed official.
(c) The following members shall serve as nonvoting ex officio members of the commission:
  (1) Commissioner of behavioral health and developmental disabilities or his or her designee;
  (2) Commissioner of juvenile justice or his or her designee;
  (3) Commissioner of corrections or his or her designee;
  (4) Commissioner of community health or his or her designee;
  (5) Commissioner of community supervision;
  (6) Director of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation or his or her designee; and
  (7) Director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the Department of Human Services or his or her designee.
(d) The commission may elect officers, other than the chairperson, as it deems necessary. The chairperson shall vote only to break a tie.
(e) The commission shall be attached for administrative purposes only to the Office of Planning and Budget. The Office of Planning and Budget and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities shall provide staff support for the commission. The Office of Planning and Budget and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities shall use any funds specifically appropriated to such office and department to support the work of the commission.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 37, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 216,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
