# § 37-1-21. Institutional powers and duties

(a) The department is designated and empowered as the agency of this state responsible for supervision and administrative control of: state facilities for the treatment of mental illness or the habilitation and treatment of individuals with developmental disabilities; programs for the care, custody, and treatment of addictive disease; and other facilities, institutions, or programs which now or hereafter come under the supervision and administrative control of the department. With respect to all such facilities, institutions, or programs the department shall have the following powers and duties:
  (1) To create all necessary offices, appoint and remove all officers of such facilities, institutions, or programs, prescribe and change the duties of such officers from time to time, and fix their salaries, other than the commissioner's salary, as provided for by the pay plan covering positions in accordance with rules and regulations of the State Personnel Board. The department shall discharge and cause to be prosecuted any officer or other person who shall assault any patient in any of such facilities or institutions or who shall knowingly use toward any such patient any other or greater force than the occasion may require;
  (2) To refuse or accept and hold in trust for any such facility, institution, or program any grant or devise of land or bequest or donation of money or other property for the particular use specified or, if no use is specified, for the general use of such facility, institution, or program;
  (3) To bring suit in its name for any claims which any such facility or institution may have, however arising;
  (4) To appoint police of such facilities, institutions, or programs who are authorized, while on the grounds or in the buildings of the respective facilities, institutions, or programs to make arrests with the same authority, power, privilege, and duties as the sheriffs of the respective counties in which such facilities, institutions, or programs are situated; and
  (5) To have full authority to receive and treat patients ordered admitted to such facilities, institutions, or programs pursuant to any law, to receive any voluntary patients, to discharge such patients pursuant to law, to contract with patients or other persons acting on behalf of patients or legally responsible therefor, and in general to exercise any power or function with respect to patients provided by law. It is the intent of the General Assembly to provide always the highest quality of diagnosis, treatment, custody, and care consistent with medical, therapeutic, and habilitative evidence based practice and knowledge. It is the further intent of the General Assembly that the powers and duties of the department with respect to patients shall be administered by persons properly trained professionally for the exercise of their duties, consistent with the intention expressed in this Code section.
(b) The board is empowered to prescribe all rules and regulations for the management of such facilities, institutions, and programs not conflicting with the law.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-57, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 418,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 1-6, eff. 7/1/2002.
