# § 43-12A-6. Acts disqualifying person from operating provider center or engaging in practice of providing, installing, or monitoring ignition interlock devices

(1) Shall not have knowingly made misleading, deceptive, untrue, or fraudulent representations in the practice of a business or profession licensed under this title or on any document connected therewith; or practiced fraud or deceit or intentionally made any false statement in obtaining a license to practice the licensed business or profession; or made a false statement or deceptive registration with the board;
(2) Shall not have been convicted of a second or subsequent violation of Code Section 40-6-391 within five years, as measured from the dates of previous arrests for which convictions were obtained to the date of the current arrest for which a conviction is obtained;
(3) Shall not have been convicted of any felony or of any crime involving theft, fraud, violence, or moral turpitude in the courts of this state or any other state, territory, or country or in the courts of the United States. As used in this paragraph, the term "felony" shall mean any offense which, if committed in this state, would be deemed a felony, without regard to its designation elsewhere; and the term "conviction" shall mean a finding or verdict of guilty or a plea of guilty, regardless of whether an appeal of the conviction has been sought;
(4) Shall not have been arrested, charged, and sentenced for the commission of any felony, or any crime involving theft, fraud, violence, or moral turpitude, where:
  (A) First offender treatment without adjudication of guilt pursuant to the charge was granted; or
  (B) An adjudication of guilt or sentence was otherwise withheld or not entered on the charge, except with respect to a plea of nolo contendere. The order entered pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 42, relating to probation of first offenders, or other first offender treatment shall be conclusive evidence of arrest and sentencing for such crime;
(5) Shall submit at least one set of classifiable electronically recorded fingerprints to the department in accordance with the fingerprint system of identification established by the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The department shall transmit the fingerprints to the Georgia Crime Information Center, which shall submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a search of bureau records and an appropriate report and promptly conduct a search of state records based upon the fingerprints. After receiving the report from the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the department shall determine whether the applicant may be certified; and
(6) Shall be a United States citizen, or if not a citizen, present federal documentation verified by the United States Department of Homeland Security to be valid documentary evidence of lawful presence in the United States under federal immigration law.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 633,§ 27, eff. 7/1/2010.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 587,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2007.
