# § 43-12A-4. Requirements for operating a provider center

(a) Every person who desires to operate a provider center shall meet the following requirements:
  (1) Maintain an established place of business in the state which is open to the public;
  (2) Maintain a general liability policy of insurance, including products and completed operations, with not less than $50,000.00 of combined single limits, with an insurance carrier authorized by the Commissioner of Insurance to write policies in the state. Evidence of such insurance coverage, in the form of a certificate from the insurance carrier, shall be filed with the department; and such certificate shall stipulate that the insurance shall not be canceled except upon ten days' prior written notice to the department;
  (3) Provide a continuous surety bond in the principal sum of $10,000.00 for the protection of the contractual rights of individuals required to maintain an ignition interlock device in such form as will meet with the approval of the department and written by a company authorized to do business in this state; provided, however, that the aggregate liability of the surety for all breaches of the condition of the bond in no event shall exceed the principal sum of $20,000.00 per location, and a single bond at such rate for all locations separately licensed and operated by the same person may be provided in satisfaction of this paragraph. The surety on any such bond may cancel such bond on giving 30 days' notice thereof in writing to the department and shall be relieved of liability for any breach of any condition of the bond which occurs after the effective date of cancellation;
  (4) Have the equipment and knowledge necessary to provide, install, and monitor ignition interlock devices as prescribed by the department; and
  (5) Pay to the department an application fee of $250.00.
(b) The department shall conduct a records check for any applicant for certification as a provider center operator. Each applicant shall submit two sets of classifiable fingerprints to the department. The department shall transmit both sets of fingerprints to the Georgia Crime Information Center, which shall submit one set of fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a search of bureau records and an appropriate report and shall retain one set of fingerprints and promptly conduct a search of state records. After receiving a report from the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the department shall determine whether the applicant may be licensed. The applicant shall be responsible for any fee or other charge allowed by law or rule or regulation promulgated by the department, the Georgia Crime Information Center, or the Federal Bureau of Investigation for the submission, processing, and review of such fingerprints.
(c) No applicant shall be licensed or certified who does not meet the requirements set forth in Code Section 43-12A-6.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 587,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2007.
