# § 33-25-3. Required policy provisions generally

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, no policy of life insurance shall be delivered or issued for delivery in this state unless it contains in substance the following provisions:
  (1)Grace period. A provision that the insured is entitled to a grace period of not less than 30 days within which the payment of any premium after the first may be made, during which period of grace the policy shall continue in force; but if a claim arises under the policy during the grace period, the amount of any premium due or overdue may be deducted from any amount payable under the policy in settlement;
  (2)Incontestability. A provision that the policy exclusive of provisions relating to disability benefits or to additional benefits in the event of death by accident or accidental means shall be incontestable, except for nonpayment of premiums, after it has been in force during the lifetime of the insured for a period of two years from its date of issue;
  (3)Misstatement of age. A provision that, if the age of the person insured or of any other person whose age is considered in determining the premium or benefit has been misstated, any amount payable or any benefit accruing under the policy shall be such as the premium would have purchased at the correct age or ages;
  (4)Dividends. A provision in participating policies that, beginning not later than the end of the third policy year, the insurer shall annually ascertain and apportion the divisible surplus, if any, that will accrue on the policy anniversary or other dividend date specified in the policy. Except as provided in this paragraph, any dividend becoming payable shall at the option of the party entitled to elect such option be either payable in cash or applied to any one of such other dividend options as may be provided by the policy. If any other dividend options are provided, the policy shall further state which option shall be automatically effective if the party shall not have elected some other option. If a policy specifies a period within which the other option may be elected, the period shall be not less than 30 days following the date on which the dividend is due and payable. The annually apportioned dividend shall be deemed to be payable in cash within the meaning set forth in this paragraph, even though the policy provides that payment of the dividend is to be deferred for a specified period, provided the period does not exceed six years from the date of apportionment and that interest will be added to the dividend at a specified rate. If a participating policy provides that the benefit under any paid-up nonforfeiture provision is to be participating, it may provide that any divisible surplus becoming payable or apportioned while the insurance is in force under the nonforfeiture provision shall be applied in the manner set forth in the policy;
  (5)Policy loan. A provision that after three full years' premiums have been paid, and after the policy has a cash surrender value, and while no premium is in default beyond the grace period for payment, the insurer will loan on the execution of a proper note or loan agreement by the owner of the policy, and on proper assignment of the policy and on the sole security of the policy, at a specified rate of interest, a sum equal to or, at the option of the owner of the policy, less than the cash value of the policy at the end of the current policy year including any dividend additions to the policy. The company may deduct from the loan value or from the proceeds of the loan any existing indebtedness on or secured by the policy not already deducted in determining the cash value, including interest due or accrued, and any unpaid balance of the premium for the current policy year, and may collect interest in advance of the loan through the end of the current policy year. The policy shall reserve to the insurer the right to defer the granting of a loan, other than for the payment of any premium to the insurer, for six months after application for such deferment. The policy may also provide that if interest on any indebtedness is not paid when due, it shall then be added to the existing indebtedness and shall bear interest at the same rate, and that if and when the total indebtedness on the policy, including interest due or accrued, equals or exceeds the amount of the loan value of the policy, then the policy shall terminate and become void, but not until at least 30 days' notice shall have been mailed by the insurer to the last known address of the insured or policy owner and to that of any assignee of record at the home office of the insurer. The policy, at the insurer's option, may provide for an automatic premium loan, subject to an election of the party entitled to elect. No condition other than as provided in this paragraph shall be exacted as a prerequisite to any loan. This provision shall not apply to term insurance or to term insurance benefits provided by rider or supplemental policy provisions;
  (6)Tables of installments. In case the policy provides that the proceeds may be payable in installments which are determinable at issue of the policy, there shall be a table showing the amounts of the guaranteed installments;
  (7)Tables of options and values. In the case of policies which cause on a basis guaranteed in the policy unscheduled changes in benefits or premiums, or which provide an option for changes in benefits or premiums other than a change to a new policy, a statement of the mortality table, interest rate, and method used in calculating cash surrender values and the paid-up nonforfeiture benefits available under the policy. In the case of all other policies, a statement of the mortality table and interest rate used in calculating the cash surrender values and the paid-up nonforfeiture benefits available under the policy, together with a table showing the cash surrender value, if any, and paid-up nonforfeiture benefits, if any, available under the policy on each policy anniversary, either during the first 20 policy years or during the term of the policy, whichever is shorter, such values and benefits to be calculated upon the assumption that there are no dividends or paid-up additions credited to the policy and that there is no indebtedness to the insurer on the policy;
  (8)Reinstatement. A provision that unless the policy has been surrendered for its cash surrender value or its cash surrender value has been exhausted, or unless the paid-up term insurance, if any, has expired, the policy will be reinstated at any time within three years from the date of premium default upon written application for reinstatement, the production of evidence of insurability satisfactory to the insurer, the payment of all premiums in arrears, and the payment or reinstatement of any other indebtedness to the insurer upon the policy all with interest not exceeding 6 percent per annum compounded annually;
  (9)Title. On each such policy there shall be placed a title which shall briefly and accurately describe the nature and form of the policy;
  (10)Payment of premiums. A provision relative to the payment of premiums;
  (11)Payment of claims. A provision that, when a policy shall become a claim by the death of the insured, settlement shall be made upon receipt of due proof of death and, at the insurer's option, surrender of the policy and proof of the interest of the claimant. If an insurer shall specify a particular period prior to the expiration of which settlement shall be made, the period shall not exceed two months from the receipt of such proofs;
  (12)Entire contract. A provision that, if any reference is made to the application for insurance or to the constitution, bylaws, or rules of the insurer as forming part of or as affecting the policy between the parties, there shall be included in or attached to the policy, when issued, a correct copy of the application signed by the applicant and of the constitution, bylaws, and rules to which reference is made.
(b) Any of the provisions enumerated in subsection (a) of this Code section or portions thereof not applicable to single premium or term policies shall to that extent not be incorporated in single premium or term policies. This Code section shall not apply to credit or group insurance, or to any provision of a life insurance policy, or contract supplemental to a life insurance policy, relating to disability benefits or to additional benefits in event of death by accident or accidental means.
