# § 50-22-2. Definitions

(1) "Agency" means every state department, agency, board, bureau, commission, and authority, unless otherwise exempted under the provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 50-22-7.
(2) "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a partnership, a business trust, an association, a firm, or any other legal entity.
(2.1) "Predesign" means that phase of an activity where requirements programming, site analysis, and other appropriate studies are conducted to develop essential information, including cost estimates, to support and advance the decision-making process prior to the design and implementation phases of an activity.
(3) "Principal representative" means the governing board of a state agency or the executive head of a state agency who is authorized to contract for the agency for professional services.
(4) "Professional services" means those services within the scope of the following:
  (A) The practice of architecture, as defined in paragraph (11) of Code Section 43-4-1;
  (B) The practice of registered interior design, as defined in Code Section 43-4-30;
  (C) The practice of professional engineering, as defined in paragraph (11) of Code Section 43-15-2;
  (D) The practice of land surveying, as defined in paragraph (6) of Code Section 43-15-2; or
  (E) The practice of landscape architecture, as defined in paragraph (3) of Code Section 43-23-1.
(5) "Project" means any activity requiring professional services estimated by the state agency to have:
  (A) A cost in excess of $1 million; or
  (B) Costs for professional services in excess of $75,000.00.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 545,§ 5, eff. 6/2/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 361,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 50, eff. 2/12/2001.
