# § 50-22-6. Selection of professional through contract negotiations; contractual prohibition against contingent fees; right to terminate contract

(a) The principal representative or his or her designee shall rank in order not less than three nor more than five persons deemed most qualified to perform such professional services. The principal representative or his or her designee shall then negotiate a contract with the highest qualified person providing professional services for such services at compensation which the principal representative or his or her designee determines in writing to be fair and reasonable. In making such decision, the principal representative or his or her designee shall take into account the estimated value of the services to be rendered and the scope, complexity, and professional nature thereof.
(b) If the principal representative or his or her designee is unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with the person considered to be the most qualified at a price the principal representative determines to be fair and reasonable, negotiations with that person shall be formally terminated. The principal representative or his or her designee shall then undertake negotiations with the second most qualified person. If the principal representative or his or her designee fails to negotiate a contract with the second most qualified person, the principal representative or his or her designee shall formally terminate such negotiations. The principal representative or his or her designee shall then undertake negotiations with the third most qualified person.
(c) If the principal representative or his or her designee is unable to negotiate a satisfactory contract with any of the selected persons, the principal representative or his or her designee shall either select additional persons in order of their competence and qualifications and continue negotiations in accordance with this Code section until a contract is reached or review the contract under negotiation to determine the possible cause for failure to achieve a negotiated contract.
(d) Each contract for professional services entered into by the principal representative shall contain a prohibition against contingent fees as follows: the architect, registered land surveyor, professional engineer, landscape architect, or interior designer, as applicable, warrants that he or she has not employed or retained any company or person, other than a bona fide employee working solely for him or her, to solicit or secure this contract and that he or she has not paid or agreed to pay any person, company, corporation, individual, or firm, other than a bona fide employee working solely for him or her, any fee, commission, percentage, gift, or other consideration contingent upon or resulting from the award or the making of this contract.
(e) Upon any violation of this Code section, the principal representative shall have the right to terminate the contract without liability and, at his or her discretion, to deduct from the contract price or recover otherwise the full amount of such fee, commission, percentage, or consideration.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 361,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2005.
