# § 53-4-48. Effect of testator's marriage, or birth or adoption of child; provision in will for class of children

(a) Except as otherwise provided in Code Section 53-4-49, the marriage of the testator, the birth of a child to the testator, including a posthumous child born within ten months of the testator's death, or the adoption of a child by the testator subsequent to the making of a will in which no provision is made in contemplation of such event shall result in a revocation of the will only to the extent provided in the remainder of this Code section.
(b) A provision in a will for a class of the testator's children shall be presumed to be made in contemplation of the birth or adoption of additional members of that class, absent an indication of a contrary intent, and the mere identification in the will of children already born or adopted at the time of the execution of the will shall not defeat this presumption.
(c) If the will was made prior to an event specified in subsection (a) of this Code section, and does not contain a provision in contemplation of such an event, the subsequent spouse or child shall receive the share of the estate he or she would have received if the testator had died intestate. Such share shall be paid from the net residuum remaining after all debts and expenses of administration, including taxes, have been paid. If the residuum proves to be insufficient, then testamentary gifts shall abate in the manner provided in subsection (b) of Code Section 53-4-63. Any bequest in the will in favor of the subsequent spouse or child shall be given effect and shall count toward the intestate share. If the bequest equals or exceeds the intestate share, then the subsequent spouse or child shall receive the bequest in lieu of the intestate share provided by this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 968,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2002.
