# § 53-4-45. Revival or republication of previous will

(a) If a will or other written instrument that expressly revoked a previous will in its entirety is revoked by a later will or other written instrument, as described in Code Section 53-4-43, the previous will remains revoked unless it is revived. The previous will is revived if it appears from the terms of the later will or other written instrument that the testator intended the previous will to take effect.
(b) If a will or other written instrument that expressly revoked a previous will in its entirety is revoked by an act, as described in Code Section 53-4-44, the previous will remains revoked unless it is revived. The previous will is revived if it appears from the circumstances of the revocation of the will or other written instrument or from the testator's contemporaneous or subsequent declarations that the testator intended the previous will to take effect.
(c) If a will or other written instrument that expressly revoked or amended a previous will in part is revoked by a later will or other written instrument, as described in Code Section 53-4-43, the revoked or amended part of the previous will is revived to the extent it appears from the terms of the later will or other written instrument that the testator intended the previous will to take effect.
(d) If a will or other written instrument that expressly revoked or amended a previous will in part is revoked by an act, as described in Code Section 53-4-44, the revoked or amended part of the previous will is revived unless it is evident from the circumstances of the revocation of the will or other written instrument or from the testator's contemporaneous or subsequent declarations that the testator did not intend the revoked or amended part of the previous will to take effect as executed.
(e) If a will or other written instrument that expressly revoked a previous will in whole or in part is revoked by a later will or other written instrument, as described in Code Section 53-4-43, or by an act, as described in Code Section 53-4-44, and the previous will or any revoked or amended portion is not revived in accordance with the provisions of this Code section, the previous will may be republished in whole or in part in accordance with Code Section 53-4-50.
