# § 15-19-58. Injunctive relief; venue; procedure; other remedies not curtailed

(a) Either the State Bar of Georgia, the Judicial Council of this state, or any organized bar association of this state is authorized to institute in the proper superior court of this state an action or actions seeking injunctive relief against any person, firm, or corporation, when it determines after investigation that such person, firm, or corporation:
  (1) Is engaged in the unauthorized or unlawful practice of law;
  (2) Reserved;
  (3) In violation of Code Section 15-19-55 or rules promulgated by the Supreme Court, is orally or by writing, for a consideration then or afterwards to be charged or received by himself or another, offering or tendering to another person, without the solicitation of such other person, the services of an attorney at law, resident or nonresident of this state, in order for the attorney to institute an action or represent the person in the courts of this or any other state or of the United States in the enforcement or collection by law of any claim, debt, or demand of any such person against another or is suggesting or urging the bringing of the action; or
  (4) Is engaged in the practice of seeking out and proposing to other persons that they present and urge through any attorney at law the collection of any claim, debt, or demand of such person against another.
(b) The venue of any action authorized by this Code section shall be determined by the constitutional and statutory provisions relating to cases in equity.
(c) The hearing, interlocutory or final, and the trial of actions authorized by this Code section shall be governed by the laws of this state relating to injunctions, as shall appeals from orders or judgments therein.
(d) In any action brought under this Code section, the final judgment, if in favor of the plaintiff, shall perpetually enjoin the defendant or defendants from the commission or continuance of the act or acts complained of. Restraining orders or temporary injunctions may be granted as in other cases in which injunctive relief is sought.
(e) This Code section and Code Section 15-19-57 shall not repeal or curtail any remedy provided in cases of unauthorized or unlawful practice of law, and nothing contained in these Code sections shall be construed as abridging the powers of the courts in such matters.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 471,§ 15, eff. 5/12/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 15, eff. 5/11/2007.
