# § 33-13-14. Recovery by receiver of distributions paid in event of liquidation, rehabilitation, or conservation of insurer

(a) If an order for the liquidation, rehabilitation, or conservation of an insurer authorized to do business in this state is entered under Chapter 37 of this title, the receiver appointed under the order shall have a right to recover on behalf of the insurer (i) from any parent corporation or holding company or person or affiliate who otherwise controlled the insurer, the amount of distributions, other than distributions of shares of the same class of stock, paid by the insurer on its capital stock, or (ii) any payment in the form of a bonus, termination settlement, or extraordinary lump sum salary adjustment made by the insurer or its subsidiary to a director, officer, or employee, where the distribution or payment pursuant to (i) or (ii) is made at any time during the one year preceding the petition for liquidation, conservation, or rehabilitation, as the case may be, subject to the limitations of subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Code section.
(b) No distribution shall be recoverable if that insurer shows that when paid the distribution was lawful and reasonable and that the insurer did not know and could not reasonably have known that the distribution might adversely affect the ability of the insurer to fulfill the obligations to claimants under its insurance contracts.
(c)
  (1) Any person who was a parent corporation or holding company or a person who otherwise controlled the insurer or affiliate at the time the distributions were paid shall be liable up to the amount of distributions or payments under subsection (a) of this Code section which the person received.
  (2) Any person who otherwise controlled the insurer at the time the distributions were declared shall be liable up to the amount of distributions he or she would have received if they had been paid immediately.
  (3) If under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection two persons are liable with respect to the same distributions, they shall be jointly and severally liable.
(d) The maximum amount recoverable under this Code section shall be the amount needed in excess of all other available assets of the impaired or insolvent insurer to pay the contractual obligations of the impaired or insolvent insurer and to reimburse any guaranty funds.
(e) To the extent that any person liable under subsection (c) of this Code section is insolvent or otherwise fails to pay claims due from it, its parent corporation or holding company or person who otherwise controlled it at the time the distribution was paid, shall be jointly and severally liable for any resulting deficiency in the amount recovered from the parent corporation or holding company or person who otherwise controlled it.

## History

Renumbered from § 31-13-13 and amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 265,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
