# § 33-13-7. Power of Commissioner to participate in supervisory college; payment of expenses associated with participation in supervisory college

(a)Power of Commissioner. With respect to any insurer registered under Code Section 33-13-4, and in accordance with subsection (c) of this Code section, the Commissioner shall also have the power to participate in a supervisory college for any domestic insurer that is part of an insurance holding company system with international operations in order to determine compliance by the insurer with this title. For purposes of this chapter, "supervisory colleges" means a forum for cooperation and communication between the involved supervisors established for the fundamental purpose of facilitating the effectiveness of the supervision of entities belonging to an insurance group. The powers of the Commissioner with respect to supervisory colleges include, but are not limited to, the following:
  (1) Initiating the establishment of a supervisory college;
  (2) Clarifying the membership and participation of other supervisors in the supervisory college;
  (3) Clarifying the functions of the supervisory college and the role of other regulators, including the establishment of a group-wide supervisor;
  (4) Coordinating the ongoing activities of the supervisory college, including planning meetings, supervisory activities, and processes for information sharing; and
  (5) Establishing a crisis management plan.
(b)Expenses. Each registered insurer subject to this Code section shall be liable for and shall pay the reasonable expenses of the Commissioner's participation in a supervisory college in accordance with subsection (c) of this Code section, including reasonable travel expenses. For purposes of this Code section, a supervisory college may be convened as either a temporary or permanent forum for communication and cooperation between the regulators charged with the supervision of the insurer or its affiliates, and the Commissioner may establish a regular assessment to the insurer for the payment of these expenses.
(c)Supervisory college. In order to assess the business strategy, financial position, legal and regulatory position, risk exposure, risk management and governance processes, and as part of the examination of individual insurers in accordance with Code Section 33-13-6, the Commissioner may participate in a supervisory college with other regulators charged with supervision of the insurer or its affiliates, including other state, federal, and international regulatory agencies. The Commissioner may enter into agreements in accordance with subsection (c) of Code Section 33-13-8 providing the basis for cooperation between the Commissioner and the other regulatory agencies, and the activities of the supervisory college. Nothing in this Code section shall delegate to the supervisory college the authority of the Commissioner to regulate or supervise the insurer or its affiliates within its jurisdiction.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-66, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 265,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
