# § 33-13-35. Submission of ORSA Summary Report

(a) Upon the Commissioner's request, and no more than once each year, an insurer shall submit to the Commissioner an ORSA Summary Report or any combination of reports that together contain the information described in the ORSA Guidance Manual, applicable to the insurer or the insurance group of which it is a member. Notwithstanding any request from the Commissioner, if the insurer is a member of an insurance group, the insurer shall submit the report or reports required by this subsection if the Commissioner is the lead state commissioner of the insurance group as determined by the procedures within the Financial Analysis Handbook adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
(b) The report or reports shall include a signature of the insurer or insurance group's chief risk officer or other executive having responsibility for the oversight of the insurer's enterprise risk management process attesting to the best of his or her belief and knowledge that the insurer applies the enterprise risk management process described in the ORSA Summary Report and that a copy of the report has been provided to the insurer's board of directors or the appropriate committee.
(c) An insurer may comply with subsection (a) of this Code section by providing the most recent and substantially similar report or reports provided by the insurer or another member of an insurance group of which the insurer is a member to the commissioner of another state or to a supervisor or regulator of a foreign jurisdiction, if that report provides information that is comparable to the information described in the ORSA Guidance Manual. Any such report in a language other than English must be accompanied by a translation of that report into the English language.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 87,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
