# § 33-13-1. Definitions

(1) "Affiliate," including the term "affiliate of" or "person affiliated with" a specific person, means a person who directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the person specified.
(2) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Insurance, the Commissioner's deputies, or the Department of Insurance, as appropriate.
(3) "Control," including the terms "controlling," "controlled by," and "under common control with," means the direct or indirect possession of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract other than a commercial contract for goods or nonmanagement services, or otherwise, unless the power is the result of an official position or corporate office held by the person. Control shall be presumed to exist if any person directly or indirectly owns, controls, holds with the power to vote, or holds proxies representing 10 percent or more of the voting securities of any other person. This presumption may be rebutted by a showing made in the manner provided by subsection (k) of Code Section 33-13-4 that control does not exist in fact. The Commissioner may determine after furnishing all persons in interest notice and opportunity to be heard and after making specific findings of fact to support such determination that control exists in fact, notwithstanding the absence of a presumption to that effect.
(4) "Enterprise risk" means any activity, circumstance, event, or series of events involving one or more affiliates of an insurer that, if not remedied promptly, is likely to have a material adverse effect upon the financial condition or liquidity of the insurer or its insurance holding company system as a whole, including, but not limited to, anything that would cause the insurer's risk-based capital to fall into company action level as set forth in Chapter 56 of this title or would cause the insurer to be in hazardous financial condition based on the standards prescribed by the Commissioner's rules and regulations.
(5) "Group-wide supervisor" means the regulatory official authorized to engage in conducting and coordinating group-wide supervision activities who is determined or acknowledged by the Commissioner under Code Section 33-13-7.1 to have sufficient significant contacts with an internationally active insurance group.
(6) "Group capital calculation instructions" mean the group capital calculation instructions as adopted and amended by the NAIC and as adopted by regulation promulgated by the Commissioner or as otherwise prescribed by regulation promulgated by the Commissioner.
(7) "Insurance holding company system" means two or more affiliated persons, one or more of which is an insurer.
(8) "Insurer" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 33-1-2, except that it shall not include agencies, authorities, or instrumentalities of the United States, its possessions and territories, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the District of Columbia, or a state or political subdivision of a state.
(9) "Internationally active insurance group" means an insurance holding company system that includes an insurer registered under Code Section 33-13-4 and that meets the following criteria:
  (A) Premiums written in at least three countries;
  (B) The percentage of gross premiums written outside the United States is at least 10 percent of the insurance holding company system's total gross written premiums; and
  (C) Based on a three-year rolling average, the total assets of the insurance holding company system are at least $50 billion or the total gross written premiums of the insurance holding company system are at least $10 billion.
(10) "NAIC" means the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
(11) "NAIC Liquidity Stress Test Framework" means the separate NAIC publication which includes a history of the NAIC's development of regulatory liquidity stress testing, the scope criteria applicable for a specific data year, and the liquidity stress test instructions and reporting templates as adopted and amended by the NAIC and as adopted by regulation by the Commissioner or as otherwise prescribed by regulation promulgated by the Commissioner.
(12) "Person" means an individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a partnership, an association, a joint-stock company, a trust, an unincorporated organization, any similar entity, or any combination of the foregoing acting in concert, but shall not include any joint venture partnership exclusively engaged in owning, managing, leasing, or developing real or tangible personal property.
(13) "Scope criteria" as set forth in the NAIC Liquidity Stress Test Framework means the designated exposure bases along with the minimum magnitudes thereof for the specified data year, used to establish a preliminary list of insurers considered scoped into the NAIC Liquidity Stress Test Framework for that data year.
(14) "Securityholder" means one who owns any security of a person, including common stock, preferred stock, debt obligations, and any other security convertible into or evidencing the right to acquire any of the foregoing.
(15) "Subsidiary" means an affiliate controlled by a specified person directly or indirectly through one or more intermediaries.
(16) "Voting security" shall include any security convertible into or evidencing a right to acquire a voting security.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 753,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 317,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-93, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-62, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 87,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 265,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
