# § 33-13-36. Exemption

(a) An insurer shall be exempt from the requirements of this article, if:
  (1) The insurer has annual direct written and unaffiliated assumed premium, including international direct and assumed premium, but excluding premiums reinsured with the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation and Federal Flood Program, less than $500 million; and
  (2) The insurance group of which the insurer is a member has annual direct written and unaffiliated assumed premium, including international direct and assumed premium, but excluding premiums reinsured with the Federal Crop Insurance Corporation and Federal Flood Program, less than $1 billion.
(b) If an insurer qualifies for exemption pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Code section, but the insurance group of which the insurer is a member does not qualify for exemption pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section, then the ORSA Summary Report that may be required pursuant to Code Section 33-13-35 shall include every insurer within the insurance group. This requirement may be satisfied by the submission of more than one ORSA Summary Report for any combination of insurers, provided that any combination of reports includes every insurer within the insurance group.
(c) If an insurer does not qualify for exemption pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Code section, but the insurance group of which it is a member qualifies for exemption pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section, then the only ORSA Summary Report that may be required pursuant Code Section 33-13-35 shall be the report applicable to that insurer.
(d) An insurer that does not qualify for exemption pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section may apply to the Commissioner for a waiver from the requirements of this article based upon unique circumstances. In deciding whether to grant the insurer's request for waiver, the Commissioner may consider the type and volume of business written, ownership and organizational structure, and any other factor the Commissioner considers relevant to the insurer or insurance group of which the insurer is a member. If the insurer is part of an insurance group with insurers domiciled in more than one state, the Commissioner shall coordinate with the lead state commissioner and with the other domiciliary commissioners in considering whether to grant the insurer's request for a waiver.
(e) Notwithstanding the exemptions stated in this Code section:
  (1) The Commissioner may require that an insurer maintain a risk management framework, conduct an ORSA, and file an ORSA Summary Report based on unique circumstances, including, but not limited to, the type and volume of business written, ownership and organizational structure, federal agency requests, and international supervisor requests; and
  (2) The Commissioner may require that an insurer maintain a risk management framework, conduct an ORSA, and file an ORSA Summary Report if the insurer has risk-based capital for a company action level event as set forth in Chapter 56 of this title, meets one or more of the standards of an insurer deemed to be in hazardous financial condition as provided for pursuant to the Commissioner's rules and regulations, or otherwise exhibits qualities of a troubled insurer as determined by the Commissioner.
(f) If an insurer that qualifies for an exemption pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section subsequently no longer qualifies for that exemption due to changes in premium as reflected in the insurer's most recent annual statement or in the most recent annual statements of the insurers within the insurance group of which the insurer is a member, the insurer shall have one year following the year the threshold is exceeded to comply with the requirements of this article.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 33, eff. 5/3/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 87,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
