# § 33-13-6. Powers of Commissioner to examine insurers; access to books and records; use of experts and consultants; payment of expenses; compelling production

(a)Powers of Commissioner. Subject to the limitation contained in this Code section and in addition to the powers which the Commissioner has under this title relating to the examination of insurers, the Commissioner shall have the power to examine any insurer registered under Code Section 33-13-4 and its affiliates to ascertain the financial condition of the insurer, including the enterprise risk to the insurer by the ultimate controlling party, or by any entity or combination of entities within the insurance holding company system, or by the insurance holding company system on a consolidated basis.
(b)Access to books and records.
  (1) The Commissioner may order any insurer registered under Code Section 33-13-4 to produce such records, books, or other information in the possession of the insurer or its affiliates as are reasonably necessary to determine compliance with this article.
  (2) To determine compliance with this article, the Commissioner may order any insurer registered under Code Section 33-13-4 to produce information not in the possession of the insurer if the insurer can obtain access to such information pursuant to contractual relationships, statutory obligations, or other method. In the event the insurer cannot obtain the information requested by the Commissioner, the insurer shall provide the Commissioner a detailed explanation of the reason that the insurer cannot obtain the information and the identity of the holder of information. Whenever it appears to the Commissioner that the detailed explanation is without merit, the Commissioner may require, after notice and hearing, the insurer to pay a penalty of $1,000.00 for each day's delay, or may suspend or revoke the insurer's license.
(c)Use of consultants. The Commissioner may retain at the registered insurer's expense such attorneys, actuaries, accountants, and other experts not otherwise a part of the Commissioner's staff as shall be reasonably necessary to assist in the conduct of the examination under subsection (a) of this Code section. Any persons so retained shall be under the direction and control of the Commissioner and shall act in a purely advisory capacity.
(d)Expenses. Each registered insurer producing for examination records, books, and papers pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall be liable for and shall pay the expense of the examination in accordance with Code Section 33-2-15.
(e)Compelling production. In the event the insurer fails to comply with an order, the Commissioner shall have the power to examine the affiliates to obtain the information. The Commissioner shall also have the power to issue subpoenas, to administer oaths, and to examine under oath any person for purposes of determining compliance with this subsection. Upon the failure or refusal of any person to obey a subpoena, the Commissioner may petition a court of competent jurisdiction, and upon proper showing, the court may enter an order compelling the witness to appear and testify or produce documentary evidence. Failure to obey the court order shall be punishable as contempt of court. Every person shall be obliged to attend as a witness at the place specified in the subpoena, when subpoenaed, anywhere within the state. He or she shall be entitled to the same fees and mileage, if claimed, as a witness in superior court, which fees, mileage, and actual expense, if any, necessarily incurred in securing the attendance of witnesses, and their testimony, shall be itemized and charged against, and be paid by, the company being examined.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 87,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 265,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
