# § 33-13-38. Confidentiality and protection

(a) Documents, materials, or other information, including the ORSA Summary Report, in the possession of or control of the Department of Insurance that are obtained by, created by, or disclosed to the Commissioner or any other person under this article is recognized by this state as being proprietary and containing trade secrets. All such documents, materials, or other information shall be confidential by law and privileged, shall not be subject to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, shall not be subject to subpoena, and shall not be subject to discovery or admissible in evidence in any private civil action. However, the Commissioner is authorized to use the documents, materials, or other information in the furtherance of any regulatory or legal action brought as a part of the Commissioner's official duties. The Commissioner shall not otherwise make the documents, materials, or other information public without the prior written consent of the insurer.
(b) Neither the Commissioner nor any person who received documents, materials, or other ORSA related information, through examination or otherwise, while acting under the authority of the Commissioner or with whom such documents, materials, or other information are shared pursuant to this article shall be permitted or required to testify in any private civil action concerning any confidential documents, materials, or information subject to subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) In order to assist in the performance of the Commissioner's regulatory duties, the Commissioner:
  (1) May upon request share documents, materials, or other ORSA related information, including the confidential and privileged documents, materials, or information subject to subsection (a) of this Code section, including proprietary and trade secret documents and materials with other state, federal, and international financial regulatory agencies, including members of any supervisory college as described in Code Section 33-13-7, with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and with any third-party consultants designated by the Commissioner, provided that the recipient agrees in writing to maintain the confidentiality and privileged status of the ORSA related documents, materials, or other information and has verified in writing the legal authority to maintain confidentiality;
  (2) May receive documents, materials, or other ORSA related information, including otherwise confidential and privileged documents, materials, or information, including proprietary and trade secret information or documents, from regulatory officials of other foreign or domestic jurisdictions, including members of any supervisory college as described in Code Section 33-13-7, and from the National Association of Insurance Commissioners, and shall maintain as confidential or privileged any documents, materials, or information received with notice or the understanding that such documents, materials, or information are confidential or privileged under the laws of the jurisdiction that is the source of such documents, materials, or information; and
  (3) Shall enter into a written agreement with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or a third-party consultant governing sharing and use of information provided pursuant to this article, consistent with this subsection that shall:
    (A) Specify procedures and protocols regarding the confidentiality and security of information shared with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or a third-party consultant pursuant to this article, including procedures and protocols for sharing by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners with other state regulators from states in which the insurance group has domiciled insurers. The agreement shall provide that the recipient agrees in writing to maintain the confidentiality and privileged status of the ORSA related documents, materials, or other information and has verified in writing the legal authority to maintain confidentiality;
    (B) Specify that ownership of information shared with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or a third-party consultant pursuant to this article remains with the Commissioner and that the use of information by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or a third-party consultant is subject to the direction of the Commissioner;
    (C) Prohibit the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or third-party consultant from storing the information shared pursuant to this article in a permanent data base after the underlying analysis is completed;
    (D) Require prompt notice to be given to an insurer whose confidential information in the possession of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or a third-party consultant pursuant to this article is subject to a request or subpoena to the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or a third-party consultant for disclosure or production;
    (E) Require the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or a third-party consultant to consent to intervention by an insurer in any judicial or administrative action in which the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or a third-party consultant may be required to disclose confidential information about the insurer shared with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or a third-party consultant pursuant to this article; and
    (F) In the case of an agreement involving a third-party consultant, provide for the insurer's written consent.
(d) The sharing of information and documents by the Commissioner pursuant to this article shall not constitute a delegation of regulatory authority or rulemaking, and the Commissioner is solely responsible for the administration, execution, and enforcement of the provisions of this article.
(e) No waiver of any applicable privilege or claim of confidentiality in the documents, proprietary and trade secret materials, or other ORSA related information shall occur as a result of disclosure of such ORSA related information or documents to the Commissioner under this Code section or as a result of sharing as authorized in this article.
(f) Documents, materials, or other information in the possession or control of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners or a third-party consultant pursuant to this article shall be confidential by law and privileged, shall not be subject to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, shall not be subject to subpoena, and shall not be subject to discovery or admissible in evidence in any private civil action.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-93, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-69, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 33, eff. 5/3/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 87,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
