# § 36-60-30. Local regulation of leaf blowers

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "Landscape Equipment and Agricultural Fairness (LEAF) Act."
(b) The General Assembly finds that:
  (1) Prudent regulation of gasoline-powered leaf blowers is crucial to the welfare of Georgia's economy;
  (2) Urban agriculture, homeowners, and landscape service professionals are sensitive to the costs and regulation of gasoline-powered leaf blowers; and
  (3) If individual political subdivisions of the state regulate gasoline-powered leaf blowers, there exists the potential for confusing and varying regulations which could lead to unnecessary increased costs for urban agriculture, homeowners, and landscape service professionals to comply with such regulations.
(c) As used in this Code section, the term "gasoline-powered leaf blowers" means any machine that is powered by a two-stroke or four-stroke engine and uses as fuel gasoline or a blend of gasoline and oil, used to blow leaves, dirt, or other debris off of sidewalks, driveways, lawns, or other surfaces.
(d) Any local prohibition or regulation regarding the use, disposition, or sale or any imposition of any restriction, fee imposition, or taxation at the retail, manufacturer, or distributor setting shall not create differing standards for or distinguish gasoline-powered leaf blowers from any other gasoline-powered, electric, or similar such equipment or any other type of leaf blower. Nothing in this subsection shall apply to the use of gasoline-powered leaf blowers on property owned by a county or municipality.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit or limit any county or municipal program to encourage the use of alternative leaf blower equipment, such as battery powered tools.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 257,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2023.
