# § 36-60-31. Obstruction of sidewalks by camping or sleeping; enforcement

(a) A county or municipal corporation shall not adopt or enforce any written policy under which the county or municipal corporation prohibits the enforcement of any order or ordinance prohibiting unauthorized public camping, sleeping, or obstruction of sidewalks.
(b) A county or municipal corporation shall not adopt a written policy prohibiting a peace officer or prosecuting attorney who is employed by or otherwise under the direction or control of such county or municipal corporation from enforcing any order or ordinance prohibiting unauthorized public camping, sleeping, or obstruction of sidewalks.
(c) The provisions of this Code section shall not be construed to prohibit a county or municipal corporation from adopting a policy that encourages diversion programs or that offers the provision of services in lieu of citation or arrest.
(d)
  (1) The Attorney General shall be authorized to bring a civil action in any court of competent jurisdiction against any county or municipal corporation to enjoin a violation of this Code section.
  (2) The Attorney General may recover reasonable expenses incurred in any successful civil action brought pursuant to this Code section, including court costs, reasonable attorney's fees, investigative costs, witness fees, and deposition costs.
  (3) A person may bring a writ of mandamus for a violation of this Code section for the person and for the state. The person may recover court expenses and fees if successful in their writ.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 274,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
Code Section 36-60-30, as enacted by 2023 Ga. Laws 274 Section 2, was redesignated as Code Section 36-60-31.
