# § 36-60-24. Sale or use or ignition of consumer fireworks products

(a) The governing authority of a county or municipal corporation shall not prohibit the sale or use or ignition of consumer fireworks or other products or services which are lawful under Chapter 10 of Title 25, unless such prohibition is expressly authorized by general law.
(b) If the sale of a product or service is regulated by Chapter 10 of Title 25, the governing authority of a county or municipal corporation shall not enact additional regulation of the sale or use or ignition of such product or service, unless such additional regulation is expressly authorized by general law.
(c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, the governing authority of a county or municipal corporation may provide for permits or licenses for the sale or use of consumer fireworks as provided for under subsection (c) of Code Section 25-10-5.1.
(d) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, the governing authority of a county or municipal corporation may further regulate the sale of consumer fireworks from temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stands until January 31, 2018.
(e) The governing authority of a county or municipal corporation shall not unreasonably delay or deny an application for a temporary consumer fireworks retail sales stand.
(f) For purposes of this subsection, the terms "consumer fireworks" and "consumer fireworks retail sales stand" shall have the same meanings as provided in Code Section 25-10-1.
(g) Any ordinance enacted before, on, or after July 1, 2006, by a county or municipal corporation in violation of this Code section is void.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 330,§ 13, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 50,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 641,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
