# § 36-60-28. Penalties for alarm system contractors for false alarms

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Alarm system" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 43-14-2.
  (2) "Alarm system contractor" shall mean any alarm system monitoring business or alarm system installation and repair business.
  (3) "Alarm system installation and repair business" means any person engaged in leasing, maintaining, servicing, repairing, altering, replacing, installing or inspecting any alarm system, or in causing any alarm system to be leased, maintained, serviced, repaired, altered, replaced, or installed in any building, structure, or facility.
  (4) "Alarm system monitoring business" means any company that intercepts signals indicating the activation of an alarm system and relays this information to a public safety agency.
  (5) "False alarm" means the activation of any alarm system that results in a request for police assistance for which the responding public safety agency finds no evidence of criminal activity.
  (6) "Local government" means any county or municipality of this state.
  (7) "Public safety agency" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 16-10-28.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a local government may enact, adopt, or enforce any ordinance, resolution, or regulation requiring any alarm system contractor to pay for or be responsible for any fines, fees, or other penalties relative to false alarms only in situations when the false alarm is attributed to an error of the alarm system contractor or improper installation by the alarm system contractor or if the alarm system contractor cannot provide evidence of telephone logs, other electronic means, or visual evidence that the alarm verification process as provided in Code Section 35-1-9 was followed. In cases where the alarm system contractor was in compliance with such provisions, a local government may require that the alarm user responsible for the false alarm pay for or be responsible for any fines, fees, or other penalties relative to false alarms.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 148,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2021.
