# § 2-12-8. Inspection fees; quarterly report; collection penalty; effect of failure to file report and pay assessment

(a) There shall be paid to the Commissioner for all fertilizer distributed in this state to nonlicensees an inspection fee at the rate of 60¢ per ton, provided that sales or exchanges between licensees and sales of containers of ten pounds or less are exempted from such fee; and provided, further, that the Commissioner may exempt by regulation certain other types of fertilizer from the inspection fee, when deemed appropriate. Any fees collected pursuant to this Code section shall be retained pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-12-92.1.
(b)
  (1) Each licensee distributing fertilizer in this state shall file with the Commissioner a quarterly report of the total tons of fertilizer distributed by such licensee in the state to nonlicensees for the quarterly period ending on the last day of March, June, September, and December. This and such other information as the Commissioner may require by regulation shall be supplied on forms furnished by or acceptable to the Commissioner. A quarterly tonnage report is required even if no reportable tonnage has been sold, provided that licensees which only distribute specialty fertilizer in containers of ten pounds or less shall not be required to submit these quarterly reports.
  (2) The report shall be due on or before 30 days following the close of the filing period, and the inspection fee at the rate stated in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be included with the report. If the tonnage report is not filed and the payment of inspection fees is not made within 30 days after the end of the specified filing period, a penalty fee of 10 percent of the amount due or $10.00, whichever is greater, shall be assessed against the licensee and added to the amount due.
  (3) A report not filed for six months or a fee or an assessed penalty which remains unpaid for six months shall constitute cause for the revocation of all registrations and licenses. Any fees owed shall constitute a debt to be collected by the Commissioner and may become the basis for legal action against the licensee.
(c) When more than one person is involved in the distribution of a fertilizer, the licensee who finally distributes a fertilizer to a nonlicensee shall be responsible for reporting the tonnage and paying the inspection fees.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-9, eff. 5/12/2010.
