# § 2-12-80. Promulgation and adoption of rules and regulations; sharing of information

(1) Promulgate and adopt:
  (A) Such rules and regulations as may be necessary to enforce this article. Such regulations may relate to, but shall not be limited to, methods of inspection and examination, designation of ingredients, and identity of products;
  (B) Rules and regulations relative to soil amendments derived from industrial by-products which may include, but not be limited to, application rates, proper conditions for application, application record keeping and retention, use of site-specific nutrient management plans, and storage and containment in or on lands where soil amendments are applied, but shall exclude forest products, soil amendments derived from industrial by-products generated solely from forest products, excluding chemical by-products of pulp digestion, slates, clays, shells, gypsum, and lime; provided, however, that pursuant to Code Section 2-1-6, no local government shall be prohibited or impaired from adopting or enforcing any zoning ordinance, including the adoption of buffers and setbacks; provided, further, that no such buffer or setback shall exceed 100 feet in width; and
  (C) Rules and regulations that require every owner and operator of a farm on which soil amendments are being applied to procure a site-specific nutrient management plan and make a copy of such plan available for inspection at the request of the department; and
(2) Share such information and consult with other agencies such as, but not limited to, the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources and the United States Department of Agriculture's Natural Resources Conservation Service.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2022.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 220,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 505,§ 9, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 35,§ 6, eff. 4/18/2019.
