# § 2-12-9. Penalties for plant food deficiencies; time for payment; effect of failure to pay; alteration of content of fertilizer by recipient

(a)Total nitrogen (N), available phosphate (P2O5), and soluble potash (K2O).
  (1) If the analysis of the official sample shows that a fertilizer is deficient in one or more of its guaranteed primary plant nutrients beyond the investigational allowances set forth in the regulations, the penalty shall be 10 percent of the guaranteed commercial value of the lot. In cases where the found commercial value of the lot is less than the guaranteed commercial value of the lot, an additional penalty of two times the difference in the found commercial value of the lot and the guaranteed commercial value of the lot shall be assessed.
  (2) Where there is no deficiency in primary plant nutrients beyond the investigational allowances set forth in the regulations, but where the found commercial value of the lot is not at least 97 percent of the guaranteed commercial value of the lot the penalty for the lot sampled shall be four times the difference between the found commercial value of the lot and the guaranteed commercial value of the lot.
(b)Chlorine in tobacco fertilizer. If the chlorine content of any lot of fertilizer branded for tobacco is more than five-tenths of 1 percent greater than the maximum amount guaranteed, a penalty shall be assessed equal to 10 percent of the guaranteed commercial value of the lot for each additional five-tenths of 1 percent, or fraction thereof, of chlorine in excess.
(c)Secondary and micro plant nutrients. If the analysis of the official sample shows that a fertilizer is deficient in secondary or micro plant nutrients, beyond the investigational allowances as set forth in the regulations, a penalty of $5.00 per ton per each element found deficient shall be assessed.
(d)Payment of penalties. All penalties must be paid within 31 calendar days after notice of assessment is made to the licensee. Penalties are assessed to the licensee and must be paid to the consumer through the Commissioner by check, or in case of indebtedness of the consumer to the seller, a credit memorandum. If a consumer cannot be found, the amount of the penalty payment shall be paid to the Georgia Department of Agriculture. Failure to pay penalties within 60 days after notice shall be sufficient grounds for the revocation of the licensee's license. The licensee who finally distributes a fertilizer to the nonlicensee shall be responsible for paying the penalty.
(e) If upon satisfactory evidence, a person is shown to have altered the content of a fertilizer shipped to him or her by a licensee, either intentionally or unintentionally, or to have mixed or commingled fertilizer from two or more suppliers such that the result of either alteration changes the analysis of the fertilizer as originally guaranteed, then that person shall become responsible for obtaining a fertilizer license and shall be held liable for all penalty payments and be subject to other provisions of this article, including seizure, condemnation, and stop sale.
(f) A deficiency in an official sample of mixed fertilizer resulting from nonuniformity is not distinguishable from a deficiency due to actual plant nutrient shortage and is properly subject to official action.
