# § 2-12-102. Definitions

(1) "Bulk" means not in a package or in packages of one cubic yard or more.
(2) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Agriculture, any employee of the Department of Agriculture, or any other person authorized by the Commissioner to act on behalf of the Commissioner.
(3) "Custom medium" means a horticultural growing medium which is prepared to exact specifications of the person who will be planting in the medium and delivered directly to that person without intermediate or further distribution.
(4) "Department" means the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(5) "Distribute" means to offer for sale, sell, barter, exchange, or otherwise supply or make available.
(6) "Horticultural growing medium" means any substance or mixture of substances which is promoted as or is intended to function as an artificial soil for the managed growth of horticultural crops.
(7) "Label" means the display of all written, printed, or graphic matter on or attached to the immediate container accompanying the lot of horticultural growing medium.
(8) "Labeling" means, in addition to the label, any written, printed, or graphic matter accompanying any horticultural growing medium or any advertisements, brochures, posters, television or radio announcements, or any other oral or written material used in promoting a horticultural growing medium.
(9) "Person" means individuals, partnerships, corporations, other organized bodies or entities, or any combination thereof.
(10) "Registrant" means the person whose name appears on the label of a horticultural growing medium and who is responsible for labeling such medium.
