# § 2-12-43. Licenses required; application, annual renewal, fees, revocation; registration of products; application, fees, cancellation

(a)
  (1) Each person whose name appears on the label of an agricultural liming material or who is responsible for guaranteeing such liming material must obtain a lime license from the Commissioner before distributing such product in Georgia.
  (2) All licenses shall expire on June 30 of each year. The application for a license shall be submitted to the Commissioner on forms furnished by or otherwise acceptable to the Commissioner. Upon approval by the Commissioner, a copy of the license shall be furnished to the applicant. A new licensee shall pay a license fee of $70.00. Thereafter, the license fee shall be based on the annual tonnage of liming materials sold in Georgia by the licensee in the previous 12 month period ending June 30, in accordance with the following:
    (A) A $100.00 annual fee for licensees having sales of 10,000 tons or more of liming materials in this state; or
    (B) A $70.00 annual fee for licensees having sales of less than 10,000 tons of liming materials in this state. A lime license must be renewed annually and fees shall be received by July 1 of each calendar year, or the applicable license fee shall increase in the manner prescribed in the rules and regulations. Such license may be revoked for cause, after due notice and hearing, for a violation of this article or any rules or regulations adopted by the Commissioner pursuant to this article. Any fees collected pursuant to this Code section shall be retained pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-12-92.1.
(b)
  (1) No licensee shall distribute in this state an agricultural liming material until such product is registered with the Commissioner by the licensee whose name appears on the label. An application for registration for each brand and product name of liming materials shall be made on forms furnished by or otherwise acceptable to the Commissioner. Labels for each brand and product name shall accompany the application. The registration fee shall be $70.00 per product. Such fee shall be submitted with the registration, and a renewal fee of $70.00 shall be due each July 1. If renewal registration fees are not received by July 1 of each calendar year, the registration fee shall increase in the manner prescribed in the rules and regulations. Upon approval by the Commissioner, a copy of the registration shall be furnished to the applicant. Such registrations shall be considered permanent so long as no changes or deviations are made in the labels of such products and so long as the registration fees are paid as specified in this article and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner. Such registrations may be canceled for cause, after due notice and hearing, for a violation of this article or any rules and regulations adopted by the Commissioner pursuant to this article.
  (2) A distributor shall not be required to register any brand of agricultural liming material which is already registered under this article by another person, provided the label does not differ in any respect.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-10, eff. 5/12/2010.
