# § 2-12-2. Definitions

(1) "Brand" means a term, design, or trademark used in connection with one or several grades of fertilizer.
(2) "Bulk fertilizer" means a fertilizer distributed in a nonpackaged form.
(3) "Commercial value" means the average retail value per unit of primary plant nutrient in dollars and cents. Such values shall be established by the Commissioner annually and may be established without a hearing except where objections are filed thereto. In the event written objections are filed within 20 days after establishment of such values, those objecting shall be afforded a hearing in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and the effective date of such values shall be postponed pending the outcome of such hearing. The values as established by the Commissioner shall be used in computing the dollar rates of penalties as provided in this article. The commercial value as established in accordance with this article is provided as a guide in determining the actual value of the product and shall not in any manner attempt to fix, regulate, or control the sales price of fertilizer or fertilizer materials. "Guaranteed commercial value" means the value of a ton of fertilizer calculated by multiplying the established commercial values of the primary plant nutrients by the primary plant nutrient guarantees. "Found commercial value" means the value of a ton of fertilizer calculated by multiplying the established commercial values of the primary plant nutrients by the percentages of primary plant nutrients found by laboratory analysis.
(4) "Custom-mixed specialty fertilizer" means a specialty fertilizer blended according to the specifications that are furnished to a licensee by or for a consumer prior to manufacturing.
(5) "Deficiency" means the amount of nutrient, found by analysis, less than that guaranteed, which may result from a lack of nutrient ingredients or from lack of uniformity.
(6) "Distribute" means to offer for sale, sell, exchange, barter, or otherwise supply or make available fertilizer in this state.
(7) "Distributor" means any person who distributes.
(8) "Fertilizer" means any substance containing one or more recognized plant nutrients which is used for its plant nutrient content and which is designed for use or claimed to have value in promoting plant growth, except unmanipulated animal and vegetable manures, marl, lime, limestone, wood ashes, boiler ashes produced by the pulp and paper industry, and other products exempted by regulation by the Commissioner, but does not include any material for which the distributor compensates, by any means, the property owner or property custodian which is receiving the material.
(9) "Fertilizer material" means a fertilizer which either:
  (A) Contains important quantities of no more than one of the primary plant nutrients: nitrogen (N), phosphate (P2O5), and potash (K2O);
  (B) Has 85 percent or more of its plant nutrient content present in the form of a single chemical compound; or
  (C) Is derived from a plant or animal residue or by-product or natural material deposit which has been processed in such a way that its content of plant nutrients has not been materially changed except by purification and concentration.
(10) "Grade" means the percentage of total nitrogen (N), available phosphate (P2O5), and soluble potash (K2O) stated in whole numbers in the same terms, order, and percentages as in the guaranteed analysis; provided, however, that specialty fertilizers, fertilizer materials, bone meal, manures, and similar materials may be guaranteed in fractional units of less than 1 percent of total nitrogen (N), available phosphate (P2O5), and soluble potash (K2O).
(11) "Guaranteed analysis" means the minimum percentage of plant nutrients claimed in the following order and form: (A)Total nitrogen (N) __ Percent (%)Available phosphate (P2O5) __ Percent (%)Soluble potash (K2O) __ Percent (%)
  (B) For unacidulated mineral phosphatic material and basic slag, bone, tankage, and other organic phosphatic materials, the total phosphate or degree of fineness, or both, may also be guaranteed; and
  (C) Guarantees for plant nutrients other than total nitrogen (N), available phosphate (P2O5), and soluble potash (K2O) are permitted or may be required by regulation by the Commissioner. The guarantees for such other nutrients shall be expressed in the form of the element, or in other forms as the Commissioner may require by regulation. The source (oxides, salts, chelates, etc.) of such other nutrients may be required by regulation to be stated on the application for registration and may be included on the label. Other beneficial substances or compounds, determinable by laboratory methods, also may be guaranteed by permission of the Commissioner. When any plant nutrients or other substances or compounds are guaranteed, they shall be subject to inspection and analysis in accord with the methods and regulations prescribed by the Commissioner.
(12) "Industrial by-product" means any industrial waste or by-product which contains plant nutrients.
(13) "Investigational allowance" means an allowance for variations inherent in the taking, preparation, and analysis of an official sample of fertilizer.
(14) "Label" means the display of all written, printed, or graphic matter, upon the immediate container, or a statement accompanying a fertilizer.
(15) "Labeling" means all written, printed, or graphic matter, upon or accompanying any fertilizer or advertisements, brochures, posters, and television and radio announcements used in promoting the sale of such fertilizer.
(16) "Licensee" means the person who receives a license to distribute fertilizer under the provisions of this article.
(17) "Lot" means that amount of fertilizer on hand and actually covered by the official sample at the time and place of sampling. In determining plant nutrient deficiencies and penalties under this article, the term "lot" means that amount of fertilizer included in a single delivery. The amount of fertilizer in such delivery shall be deemed deficient and subject to the penalties provided by law, provided that at least 20 percent of such delivery is on hand at the time the official sample is drawn.
(18) "Mixed fertilizer" means a fertilizer containing any combination or mixture of fertilizer materials.
(19) "Official sample" means a sample of fertilizer taken by the Commissioner using methods adopted by the Commissioner by regulation in accordance with subsection (b) of Code Section 2-12-7.
(20) "Percent" or "percentage" means the percentage by weight.
(21) "Person" means an individual, partnership, association, firm, corporation, or any combination thereof.
(22) "Primary plant nutrients" means total nitrogen (N), available phosphate (P2O5), and soluble potash (K2O).
(23) "Secondary" or "micro" plant nutrients means any elements or substances recognized by the Commissioner as being agronomically or horticulturally useful in promoting plant growth, other than primary plant nutrients.
(24) "Specialty fertilizer" means a fertilizer distributed for nonfarm use, such as, but not limited to, home gardens, household plants, lawns, shrubbery, flowers, golf courses, municipal parks, cemeteries, greenhouses, and nurseries. The term "specialty fertilizer" also includes any fertilizer distributed in packages having a net weight of 10 pounds or less.
(25) "Ton" means a net weight of 2,000 pounds avoirdupois.
(26) "Unit" of a plant nutrient means 20 pounds or 1 percent of a ton.
(27) "Unmanipulated manure" means the excreta of animals when not artificially mixed with any material or materials other than those which have been used for bedding, sanitary, or feeding purposes for such animals or for the preservation of the manure, or when such excreta has not been subjected to processing other than composting, and provided such composted products are distributed in bulk only.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 35,§ 3, eff. 4/18/2019.
