# § 2-12-71. Definitions

(1) "Adulterated" means any soil amendment:
  (A) Which contains any deleterious or harmful agent in sufficient quantity to be injurious to beneficial plants, animals, or aquatic life when applied in accordance with the directions for use shown on the label;
  (B) Whose composition differs substantially from that offered in support of registration or shown on the label;
  (C) Which contains noxious weed seed; or
  (D) Which contains domestic septage as such term is defined in 40 C.F.R. 503.9.
(1.1) "Apply" means to put, place, lay, spread, or deposit a soil amendment on the land, whether topically, with or without subsequent incorporation into the soil, by subsurface injection, or otherwise.
(2) "Bulk" means in nonpackaged form.
(3) "Distribute" means to import, consign, offer for sale, sell, barter, or otherwise supply soil amendments to any person in this state.
(4) "Distributor" means any person who imports, consigns, sells, offers for sale, barters, or otherwise supplies soil amendments in this state.
(5) "Label" means the display of written, printed, or graphic matter upon the immediate container of the soil amendment.
(6) "Labeling" means all written, printed, or graphic matter accompanying any soil amendment and all advertisements, brochures, posters, and television, radio, and oral claims used in promoting its sale.
(7) "Percent" or "percentage" means the parts per 100 by weight.
(8) "Person" means an individual, partnership, association, corporation, or other organized body.
(9) "Product name" means the designation under which a soil amendment is offered for distribution.
(10) "Registrant" means any person who registers a soil amendment under this article.
(11) "Soil amendment" means any substance intended for changing the characteristics of soil or other growth medium for the purposes of:
  (A) Increasing penetrability of water or air;
  (B) Increasing water-holding capacity;
  (C) Alleviating or decreasing soil compaction; or
  (D) Otherwise altering the soil or other medium in such manner that the physical properties are materially enhanced. The term "soil amendment" does not include any substance for which nutritional claims are made, such as, but not limited to, commercial fertilizers, liming materials, or unmanipulated vegetable or animal manures.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 567,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 505,§ 7, eff. 1/1/2021.
