# § 43-20-3. Definitions

(1) "Apprentice dispenser's permit" means a temporary nonrenewable one-year permit issued while the applicant is in apprenticeship under a licensed dispenser in order to become a licensed hearing aid dispenser.
(2) "Board" means the State Board of Hearing Aid Dealers and Dispensers.
(3) "Dealer's license" means the license required for each office, store, or location established or maintained for the dispensing of hearing aid devices or instruments in this state.
(4) "Dispenser's license" means the license required for each individual who shall engage in the practice of dispensing hearing aid instruments or devices to or for use by the eventual user thereof.
(5) "Hearing aid device or instrument," "hearing aid," or "aid" means any wearable electronic instrument or device designed for or represented or offered for the purpose of compensating for defective human hearing, including parts, attachments, ear molds, and accessories, except batteries, cords, replacement tubing, and minor service limited to the removal of battery corrosion.
(6) "License" means any license issued to hearing aid dealers or to hearing aid dispensers by the State Board of Hearing Aid Dealers and Dispensers or by the division director on behalf of the board under this chapter.
(7) "Practice of dispensing hearing aids" means the providing of a hearing aid to a consumer by sale, rental, lease, or otherwise. A holder of a license or permit issued under this chapter shall be entitled to conduct testing and other procedures to determine suitability for use of a hearing aid, to determine hearing aid characteristics which properly compensate the hearing condition, to select suitable aids, to fit aids to the subject, and to counsel and instruct in the use thereof.
(8) "Training permit" means a temporary renewable six-month permit issued while the applicant is in training, under the direct supervision and immediate observation of a licensed dispenser, to become a licensed dispenser.
