# § 43-20-8. Issuance of licenses; fees

(a) The board may issue a dealer's license to any applicant for a dealer's license upon compliance with this chapter, upon payment of the appropriate license fee for a dealer's license, and upon the presentation of evidence satisfactory to the board that such applicant has established or will establish and maintain a regular office, store, or location for the dispensing of hearing aid devices or instruments, and that a person who possesses a valid Georgia dispenser's license will be responsible for the dispensing of hearing aids under such dealer's license.
(b)
  (1) The board may issue a dispenser's license to an applicant only when:
    (A) The applicant has satisfactorily completed a board approved examination;
    (B) Proof of age has been verified; and
    (C) The applicant has satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. An application for a dispenser's license by examination under this chapter shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board or its representative to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for a dispenser's license by examination agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check. This subparagraph shall not apply to an application for a renewal of a dispenser's license.
  (2) The dispenser's license shall authorize the holder to dispense hearing aids under the general supervision of a licensed dealer.
(c) The dealer's license fee shall be in an amount determined by the board and must be paid for each office or location established by the dealer.
(d) The dispenser's license fee shall be in an amount determined by the board.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 209,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 27, eff. 5/20/2010.
