# § 43-20-6. General powers and duties of board; division director

(a) The board shall have the responsibility and duty of administering and enforcing this chapter. The board shall have the power to establish and to revise minimal procedure and equipment requirements which shall be used in the dispensing of hearing aids.
(b) The board shall:
  (1) Supervise the issuance of licenses and administer qualifying examinations;
  (2) License persons who make proper application to the division director and who meet the qualifications for licensure;
  (3) Issue and renew licenses;
  (4) Suspend, revoke, or otherwise sanction licenses in the manner provided in this chapter;
  (5) Appoint representatives to conduct or supervise examinations; and
  (6) Make available to the public a copy of this chapter, any amendments thereto, and all adopted rules.
(c) The division director shall be guided by the recommendations of the board in all matters relating to this chapter and shall assist the board in carrying out this chapter.
(d) In the administration and enforcement of this chapter, the board shall have the power to adopt reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this chapter and the Constitution and laws of this state or of the United States for governing its times and places of meetings; for organization and reorganization; for the holding of examinations; for governing all other matters requisite to the exercising of its powers; for the performance of its duties relating to examinations; for granting, suspending, revoking, or otherwise sanctioning licenses; and for the transaction of its business under this chapter.
(e) The board may provide, by regulation, for the general scope of the examination described in Code Section 43-20-9. The board may approve the examination and obtain advice and assistance in providing for and grading such examination; and the division director may contract with third parties to perform administrative services related to the examination as he or she deems appropriate.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 26, eff. 5/20/2010.
