# § 9-9-22. Definitions

(a) As used in this part, the term:
  (1) "Arbitration" means any arbitration, whether or not administered by a permanent arbitral institution.
  (2) "Arbitration agreement" means an agreement by the parties to submit to arbitration all or certain disputes that have arisen or may arise between them in respect of a defined legal relationship, whether contractual or not, and may be in the form of an arbitration clause in a contract or in the form of a separate agreement.
  (3) "Arbitration award" means a decision of an arbitration tribunal on the substance of a dispute submitted to it and shall include an interim, interlocutory, or partial award.
  (4) "Arbitration tribunal" means a sole arbitrator or a panel of arbitrators.
(b)
  (1) Where a provision of this part, except Code Section 9-9-50, leaves the parties free to determine a certain issue, such freedom shall include the right of the parties to authorize a third party, including an institution, to make that determination.
  (2) Where a provision of this part refers to the fact that the parties have agreed or that they may agree or in any other way refers to an agreement of the parties, such agreement shall include any arbitration rule referred to in such agreement.
  (3) Where a provision of this part, other than in paragraph (1) of Code Section 9-9-47 and paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 9-9-54, refers to a claim, it shall also apply to a counterclaim, and where it refers to a defense, it shall also apply to a defense to such counterclaim.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 713,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
