# § 9-9-55. Correction or interpretation of arbitration award; additional arbitration awards; extension of time for correction, interpretation, or additional award

(a)
  (1) Within 30 days of receipt of the arbitration award, unless another period of time has been agreed upon by the parties:
    (A) A party, with notice to the other party, may request the arbitration tribunal to correct in the arbitration award any errors in computation, any clerical or typographical errors, or any errors of similar nature; and
    (B) If agreed by the parties, a party, with notice to the other party, may request the arbitration tribunal to give an interpretation of a specific point or part of the arbitration award.
  (2) If the arbitration tribunal considers any request under paragraph (1) of this subsection to be justified, it shall make the correction or give the interpretation within 30 days of receipt of the request. The interpretation shall form part of the arbitration award.
(b) The arbitration tribunal may correct any error of the type referred to in subparagraph (a)(1)(A) of this Code section on its own initiative within 30 days of the date of the arbitration award.
(c) Unless otherwise agreed by the parties, a party, with notice to the other party, may request, within 30 days of receipt of the arbitration award, the arbitration tribunal to make an additional award as to claims presented in the arbitration proceedings but omitted from the arbitration award. If the arbitration tribunal considers such request to be justified, it shall make the additional award within 60 days of receipt of the request.
(d) The arbitration tribunal may extend, if necessary, the period of time within which it shall make a correction, interpretation, or an additional award under subsection (a) or (c) of this Code section.
(e) The provisions of Code Section 9-9-53 shall apply to a correction or interpretation of the arbitration award or to an additional award.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 713,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
