# § 9-9-8. Time and place for hearing; notice; application for prompt hearing; conduct of hearing; right to counsel; record; waiver

(a) The arbitrators, in their discretion, shall appoint a time and place for the hearing notwithstanding the fact that the arbitration agreement designates the county in which the arbitration hearing is to be held and shall notify the parties in writing, personally or by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, not less than ten days before the hearing. The arbitrators may adjourn or postpone the hearing. The court, upon application of any party, may direct the arbitrators to proceed promptly with the hearing and determination of the controversy.
(b) The parties are entitled to be heard; to present pleadings, documents, testimony, and other matters; and to cross-examine witnesses. The arbitrators may hear and determine the controversy upon the pleadings, documents, testimony, and other matters produced notwithstanding the failure of a party duly notified to appear.
(c) A party has the right to be represented by an attorney and may claim such right at any time as to any part of the arbitration or hearings which have not taken place. This right may not be waived. If a party is represented by an attorney, papers to be served on the party may be served on the attorney.
(d) The hearing shall be conducted by all the arbitrators unless the parties otherwise agree; but a majority may determine any question and render and change an award, as provided in this part. If during the course of the hearing, an arbitrator for any reason ceases to act, the remaining arbitrator or arbitrators appointed to act as neutrals may continue with the hearing and determination of the controversy.
(e) The arbitrators shall maintain a record of all pleadings, documents, testimony, and other matters introduced at the hearing. The arbitrators or any party to the proceeding may have the proceedings transcribed by a court reporter.
(f) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, a requirement of this Code section may be waived by written consent of the parties or by continuing with the arbitration without objection.
