# § 9-9-2. Applicability; exclusive method

(a) Part 3 of Article 2 of this chapter, as it existed prior to July 1, 1988, applies to agreements specified in subsection (b) of this Code section made between July 1, 1978, and July 1, 1988. This part applies to agreements specified in subsection (b) of this Code section made on or after July 1, 1988, and to disputes arising on or after July 1, 1988, in agreements specified in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(b) Part 3 of Article 2 of this chapter, as it existed prior to July 1, 1988, shall apply to construction contracts, contracts of warranty on construction, and contracts involving the architectural or engineering design of any building or the design of alterations or additions thereto made between July 1, 1978, and July 1, 1988, and on and after July 1, 1988, this part shall apply as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section and shall provide the exclusive means by which agreements to arbitrate disputes arising under such contracts can be enforced.
(c) This part shall apply to all disputes in which the parties thereto have agreed in writing to arbitrate and shall provide the exclusive means by which agreements to arbitrate disputes can be enforced, except the following, to which this part shall not apply:
  (1) Agreements coming within the purview of Article 2 of this chapter, relating to arbitration of medical malpractice claims;
  (2) Any collective bargaining agreements between employers and labor unions representing employees of such employers;
  (3) Any contract of insurance, as defined in Code Section 33-1-2; provided, however, that nothing in this paragraph shall impair or prohibit the enforcement of or in any way invalidate an arbitration clause or provision in a contract between insurance companies;
  (4) Any other subject matters currently covered by an arbitration statute;
  (5) Any loan agreement or consumer financing agreement in which the amount of indebtedness is $25,000.00 or less at the time of execution;
  (6) Any contract for the purchase of consumer goods, as defined in Title 11, the "Uniform Commercial Code," under subsection (1) of Code Section 11-2-105 and subsection (a) of Code Section 11-9-102;
  (7) Any contract involving consumer acts or practices or involving consumer transactions as such terms are defined in subsection (a) of Code Section 10-1-392, relating to definitions in the "Fair Business Practices Act of 1975";
  (8) Any sales agreement or loan agreement for the purchase or financing of residential real estate unless the clause agreeing to arbitrate is initialed by all signatories at the time of the execution of the agreement. This exception shall not restrict agreements between or among real estate brokers or agents;
  (9) Any contract relating to terms and conditions of employment unless the clause agreeing to arbitrate is initialed by all signatories at the time of the execution of the agreement; or
  (10) Any agreement to arbitrate future claims arising out of personal bodily injury or wrongful death based on tort.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-94, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 9, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 344,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 25, eff. 7/1/2001.
