# § 9-9-37. Disputes as to jurisdiction

(1) The arbitration tribunal may rule on its own jurisdiction, including any objections with respect to the existence or validity of the arbitration agreement. For that purpose, an arbitration clause which forms part of a contract shall be treated as an agreement independent of the other terms of the contract. A decision by the arbitration tribunal that the contract is null and void shall not thereby invalidate the arbitration clause;
(2) A plea that the arbitration tribunal does not have jurisdiction shall be raised not later than the submission of the statement of defense. A party shall not be precluded from raising such a plea by the fact that the party has appointed, or participated in the appointment of, an arbitrator. A plea that the arbitration tribunal is exceeding the scope of its authority shall be raised as soon as the matter alleged to be beyond the scope of its authority is raised during the arbitral proceedings. The arbitration tribunal may, in either case, admit a later plea if it considers the delay justified; and
(3) The arbitration tribunal may rule on a plea referred to in paragraph (2) of this Code section either as a preliminary question or in an arbitration award on the merits. If the arbitration tribunal rules as a preliminary question that it has jurisdiction or only partial jurisdiction, within 30 days after having received notice of such ruling and subject to the permission of the arbitration tribunal, any party may request that the court specified in Code Section 9-9-27 decide the matter, which decision shall not be subject to appeal; while such a request is pending, the arbitration tribunal may continue the arbitral proceedings and make an arbitration award.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 713,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Former 9-9-37 repealed by 2012 Ga. Laws 713,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
