# § 45-17-8.2. Misrepresentation prohibited; required notice; posting of schedule of fees; penalties

(a) A notary shall not make claims to have or imply he or she has powers, qualifications, rights, or privileges that the office of notary does not authorize, including the powers to counsel on immigration matters and to give legal advice.
(b) A notary who is not an attorney licensed to practice law in this state who advertises the person's services as a notary public in English or any other language, by radio, television, signs, pamphlets, newspapers, other written communication, or in any other manner, shall post or otherwise include with the advertisement the notice set forth in this subsection in English and in every other language used for the advertisement. The notice shall be of a conspicuous size, if in writing, and shall state: "I AM NOT AN ATTORNEY LICENSED TO PRACTICE LAW IN THE STATE OF GEORGIA, AND I MAY NOT GIVE LEGAL ADVICE OR ACCEPT FEES FOR LEGAL ADVICE." If the advertisement is made by radio or television, the statement may be modified but must include substantially the same message.
(c) A notary who is not an attorney licensed to practice law in this state is prohibited from representing or advertising that the notary is a "legal consultant" or an expert on legal matters.
(d) A notary who is not an attorney licensed to practice law in this state is prohibited from rendering any service that constitutes the unauthorized practice of law.
(e) A notary required to comply with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section shall prominently post at the notary public's place of business a schedule of fees established by law which a notary may charge. The fee schedule shall be written in English and in any non-English language in which the notary services were solicited and shall contain the notice required in subsection (b) of this Code section, unless the notice is otherwise prominently posted at the notary public's place of business.
(f) The Attorney General or prosecuting attorney may seek injunctive relief against any notary public who violates the provisions of this Code section. Nothing in this Code section diminishes the authority of the State Bar of Georgia.
(g) A violation of subsection (c) or (d) of this Code section constitutes a deceptive trade practice under Code Section 10-1-427 in addition to any other penalties provided by law.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 777, § 2, eff. 7/1/2002.
