# § 45-17-13. Change of residence, address, or name

(a) Every notary public shall notify in writing the appointing clerk of superior court and provide a copy of such notice to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority of any change in the notary's residence or business address, whichever was used for the purpose of appointment, and of any change in the notary's telephone number. The notice shall contain both the old and new addresses and must be received by the clerk of superior court within 30 days of the change.
(b)
  (1) Every notary public shall notify in writing the appointing clerk of superior court, with a copy to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority, of any change in the notary's name. The notice shall contain both the old and new names, the new signature, and any new address and must be received by the clerk of superior court within 30 days of the change.
  (2) A notary with a new name may begin to officially sign the new name on notarial certificates when the following steps have been completed:
    (A) The notice described in paragraph (1) of this subsection has been received by the appointing clerk of superior court;
    (B) A confirmation of the notary's name change has been received from the appointing clerk of superior court; and
    (C) A new seal bearing the new name exactly as indicated in the confirmation has been obtained.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 471,§ 45, eff. 5/12/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 127,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2007.
