# § 48-2-15.2. Ruling; regulations prescribing guidelines; precedential value of ruling

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "ruling" means a written determination that is issued to a person by the commissioner pursuant to regulations promulgated for that purpose, in response to such person's written inquiry about his or her status for tax purposes or the tax effects of acts or transactions, and is based on applying the tax statutes, regulations, or other legal authority to such person's specific set of facts. Such term thus does not include, for example, notices of proposed or final assessment or decisions thereon, decisions on claims for refund, decisions to accept or reject offers in compromise, voluntary disclosure or closing agreements, and responses to petitions or applications under Code sections permitting the commissioner to waive penalty or interest.
(b) The commissioner is authorized to promulgate regulations prescribing guidelines and procedures for the submission of rulings, issuance or denial of issuance of rulings, and the redaction and disclosure of rulings to the public. The commissioner may not disclose a ruling to the public without first deleting the name, address, and other identifying details of the person to whom the ruling was issued.
(c) A ruling shall have no precedential value except to the person to whom the ruling was issued and then only for the specific transaction addressed in the ruling.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 674,§ 1, eff. 5/1/2012.
See 2012 Ga. Laws 674, § 4.
