# § 48-2-51. Jeopardy assessments; collection; bond

(a) If the commissioner reasonably finds that a taxpayer gives evidence of intention to leave the state, to remove his property from the state, to conceal himself or his property, to discontinue business, or to do any other act tending to prejudice or render wholly or partly ineffective proceedings to compute, assess, or collect any state tax, whereby it becomes advisable that such proceedings be brought without delay, the commissioner shall declare the taxable period for such taxpayer terminated forthwith and shall give notice of such finding and demand immediate payment of such tax as may be due. The commissioner may immediately make an arbitrary assessment and may proceed under the assessment to collect the tax or require the taxpayer to file with him a bond satisfactory to the commissioner as security for payment of the tax.
(b)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "illegal drug" means marijuana as defined in paragraph (16) of Code Section 16-13-21, as amended; a controlled substance as defined in paragraph (4) of Code Section 16-13-21, as amended; or a dangerous drug as defined in Code Section 16-13-71, as amended. The term illegal drug shall not include any drug when used pursuant to a valid medical prescription or when used as otherwise authorized by state or federal law.
  (2) When an assessment for taxes based upon the possession, sale, or distribution of an illegal drug is made by the commissioner, such assessment shall be considered a jeopardy assessment for collection as provided in this Code section. The commissioner shall assess such tax and applicable penalties based on personal knowledge or information available to the commissioner; mail to the taxpayer at the taxpayer's last known address or serve in person a written notice of the amount of tax and penalty; demand its immediate payment; and, if payment is not immediately made, collect the tax and penalty by any method prescribed in this chapter.
  (3) The tax and penalties assessed by the commissioner are presumed to be valid and correctly determined and assessed. With respect to any administrative or civil proceedings regarding the assessment or collection under this subsection of any taxes, interest, or penalties imposed by this title, the burden shall be upon the taxpayer to show their incorrectness or invalidity. Any statement filed by the commissioner with the court, or any other certificate by the commissioner of the amount of tax and penalties determined or assessed, shall be admissible in evidence and shall be prima-facie evidence of the facts contained in such statement or certificate.
