# § 48-2-33. Receipts for taxes

(a) The commissioner and his agents and employees, upon request, shall give receipts for all sums collected by the commissioner or the department, except when the sums are in payment for stamps, tags, or license plates sold and delivered. No receipt shall be issued in lieu of a stamp representing a tax.
(b) When payment of any tax or license fee (except for stamps, tags, or license plates sold and delivered) is made in cash, it shall be the duty of the person making the payment to demand and receive, and the duty of the person receiving the payment to furnish, a written receipt for the payment in the form prescribed by the commissioner for official receipts of the department. The written receipt shall be conclusive as to the transaction and the commissioner shall not be required to give credit for a cash payment under any other circumstances. For the purposes of this subsection, a cash payment includes payment by check, money order, or other instrument payable or endorsed to bearer or to any payee or endorsee except a bearer, payee, or endorsee which is, in substance, the department.
(c) The commissioner, upon request, shall give to the person paying an estate tax duplicate receipts, either of which shall be sufficient evidence of such payment. The receipt shall entitle the legal representative of the estate to be credited and allowed the amount of the payment by any court having jurisdiction to audit or settle the legal representative's accounts.
