# § 48-2-49. Periods of limitation for assessment of taxes

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section or this title, the amount of any tax imposed by this title may be assessed at any time.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by subsection (c) of this Code section or by this title, in the case where a return or report is filed, the amount of any tax imposed by this title shall be assessed within three years after the return or report was filed. For purposes of this subsection, a return or report filed before the last day prescribed by law for the filing thereof shall be considered as filed on such last day. If an extension of time for filing a return or report is granted and the return or report is filed on or before the extended date, the return or report shall be considered as filed on the extended due date.
(c) Except as otherwise provided by this title, in the case of a false or fraudulent return or report filed with the intent to evade tax or a failure to file a return or report, the amount of any tax imposed by this title may be assessed at any time.
(d) Where, before the expiration of the time prescribed in this Code section for the assessment of any tax imposed by this title, both the commissioner and the person subject to assessment have consented in writing to its assessment after such time, the tax may be assessed at any time prior to the expiration of the agreed upon period. The period so agreed upon may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing made before the expiration of the previously agreed upon period. The commissioner is authorized in any such agreement to extend similarly the period within which a claim for refund may be filed.
(e) If a claim for refund of taxes paid for any taxable period is filed within the last six months of the period during which the commissioner may assess the amount of taxes, the assessment period is extended for a period of six months beginning on the day the claim for refund is filed.
(f) No action without assessment shall be brought for the collection of any tax after the expiration of the period for assessment.
