# § 48-2-30. Remittances

(a) Except with regard to ad valorem property taxes, when an application or return is filed with the commissioner under the revenue or license laws or regulations of this state and an amount is shown on the application or return to be due or to become due, the person required to make the application or return shall remit the amount with the application or return without further assessment, notice, or demand to the commissioner or department at the time and place fixed for filing of the application or return. Upon any failure in this regard, the commissioner shall have the authority to issue forthwith a fi. fa. for the collection of the amount due.
(b) The acceptance by the commissioner or the department of any payment received with respect to any tax or license fee shall not imply that the tax or license fee is thereby fully assessed, fixed, determined, or satisfied. All persons making such payments shall understand that the payments will be accepted and the proper account credited with the payment subject to a final determination of its correctness in due course, any condition expressed in such payment to the contrary notwithstanding. This subsection shall not apply to payments received pursuant to authorized compromises and settlements, which payments shall be governed by the special agreements and proceedings applicable thereto.
(c) No condition affixed to any remittance with respect to the time or manner of processing or negotiating its payment shall be given any force or effect.
