# § 48-2-7. Duties and powers of commissioner

(a) The commissioner shall:
  (1) Direct the affairs of the department in the administration and enforcement of all laws enacted for the purpose of raising revenues for this state by taxation or otherwise;
  (2) Supervise all tax administration throughout the state, subject to the sovereign rights of the counties to regulate their own affairs;
  (3) Assist local tax officials in every feasible manner when so requested by the local tax officials;
  (4) Make studies of taxation in this state and elsewhere with a view to improvement of administration and legislation affecting the people of this state. In this connection, he may assemble and publish in print or electronically such statistics and reports as he may deem advisable within the limitations of his appropriation; and
  (5) Submit to the Governor and to each regular session of the General Assembly an annual report of the conduct of his or her office. The commissioner shall not be required to distribute copies of the annual report to the members of the General Assembly but shall notify the members of the availability of the annual report in the manner which he or she deems to be most effective and efficient. As the chief revenue official of the state, he or she shall advise the Governor and the General Assembly on all matters relating to revenue.
(b) The commissioner shall annually prepare and publish in print or electronically statistics reasonably available with respect to the operations of Chapter 7 of this title, including classification of taxpayers and of income; the amounts allowed as deductions, exemptions, and credits; and any other facts deemed pertinent and valuable.
(c) The provisions of this Code section enumerating the duties of the commissioner shall not be construed to exclude other duties assigned to the commissioner by law.
(d) No provision of this chapter shall be construed to give the commissioner any power to:
  (1) Make assessments for ad valorem taxation or to collect such assessments from any taxpayer, except as specifically provided by law; or
  (2) Examine the books, records, inventories, or business of any taxpayer for any purpose other than determining liability for taxes collected directly by the commissioner, except as otherwise specifically provided by law.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 333,§ 37, eff. 7/1/2005.
