# § 48-2-6. Departmental organization; employees; compensation; collection of delinquent taxes by contractors; mandatory fingerprinting

(a) The commissioner shall establish by executive order such units within the department as he or she deems proper for its administration and shall designate persons to be directors and assistant directors of such units to exercise such authority as he or she may delegate to them in writing.
(b) The commissioner shall have the authority to employ as many persons as he or she deems necessary for the administration of the department and for the discharge of the duties of his or her office. He or she shall issue all necessary directions, instructions, orders, and rules applicable to such persons. He or she shall have authority, as he or she deems proper, to employ, assign, compensate, and discharge employees of the department within the limitations of the department's appropriation, the requirements of the state system of personnel administration, including the rules and regulations of the State Personnel Board, and the restrictions set forth by law.
(c) All employees of the department shall be compensated upon a fixed salary basis and no person shall be compensated for services to the department on a commission or contingent fee basis.
(d) Neither the commissioner nor any officer or employee of the department shall be given or receive any fee, compensation, loan, gift, or other thing of value in addition to the compensation and expense allowance provided by law for any service or pretended service either rendered or to be rendered as commissioner or as an officer or employee of the department.
(e) The commissioner is authorized to provide for the collection of delinquent taxes, including penalties and interest, by contractors. Any such contractors must be approved by the commissioner. No employee of the department shall be approved as a contractor under this subsection. Such contractors shall be compensated only on a commission or contingent fee basis.
(f) The following persons shall be subject to the mandatory fingerprinting and criminal record checks described in subsection (g) of this Code section:
  (1) All prospective employees of the department, as a condition of employment;
  (2) All personnel employed by the department after January 1, 2019, who have not had a criminal record check within the prior ten years, as a condition of continuing employment, with a requirement for subsequent criminal record checks not less frequently than once every ten years;
  (3) Employees of prospective contractors of the department, and any subcontractors thereof, who may have access to confidential information as provided in Code Section 48-2-15 or 48-7-60 or who may have access to returns or return information as defined in 26 U.S.C. Section 6103 prior to any access to any of the foregoing information; and
  (4) All personnel employed by contractors of the department, and any subcontractors thereof, after January 1, 2019, who have not had a criminal record check within the prior ten years, with a requirement for subsequent criminal record checks not less frequently than once every ten years.
(g)
  (1) The department's Office of Special Investigations shall have the authority and responsibility to order criminal record checks pursuant to this Code section through the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation and shall have the authority to receive the results of such criminal record checks.
  (2) Fingerprints shall be in such form and of such quality as shall be acceptable for submission to the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It shall be the duty of each law enforcement agency in this state to fingerprint those persons required to be fingerprinted by this Code section. At the discretion of the department, such fingerprinting may be performed by the department's Office of Special Investigations.
  (3) Upon receipt thereof, the Georgia Crime Information Center shall promptly transmit one set of fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a search of the bureau records, retain another set of fingerprints, and conduct a search of its own records and records to which it has access. The Georgia Crime Information Center shall notify the department in writing of any findings or if there are no such findings. All conviction data received by the department shall not be public record, shall be privileged, and shall not be disclosed to any other person or agency except to any person or agency which otherwise has a legal right to inspect the employment file. All such information shall be maintained by the department in conformity with the requirements of the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. As used in this subsection, the term "conviction data" means a record of a finding or verdict of guilty, a plea of guilty, or a plea of nolo contendere with regard to any crime, regardless of whether an appeal of the conviction has been sought.
  (4) At the discretion of the department, fees required for a criminal record check by the Georgia Crime Information Center or the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall be paid by the department or by the individual seeking employment or making application to the department. Contractors and subcontractors shall pay such fees for their employees and prospective employees.
  (5) The department may use the information obtained from fingerprinting and a person's criminal record check only for the purpose of verifying the identification of such person and in the official determination of the fitness of such person's qualification for initial or continuing employment, or in the case of employees of contractors and subcontractors, for the purpose of allowing or denying access to legally protected information.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 345,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2018.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-89, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
