# § 48-2-5. Office of deputy state revenue commissioner

(a) There is created the office of deputy state revenue commissioner, who shall exercise the authority of the commissioner in matters specified by law and in any other such matters as the commissioner may delegate to him or her in writing. The actions of the deputy commissioner, within the scope of his or her authority, shall have the same force and effect as the actions of the commissioner.
(b) The deputy commissioner shall be appointed by the commissioner. He or she shall hold office at the pleasure of the commissioner and shall not be subject to the state system of personnel administration provided by Chapter 20 of Title 45. The deputy commissioner shall take the oath of office of the commissioner as provided in subsection (d) of Code Section 48-2-2.
(c) The deputy commissioner shall receive a salary as determined by the commissioner, subject to the approval of the Office of Planning and Budget and paid from funds appropriated by the department. The deputy commissioner's salary shall in no event exceed the salary of the commissioner.
(d) The deputy commissioner shall execute and file an official surety bond approved as to form and sufficiency by the Attorney General in the same amount as required for the commissioner by subsection (e) of Code Section 48-2-2. The premium on the bond shall be paid as an expense of the department.
(e) The deputy commissioner shall have the authority of the commissioner to:
  (1) Issue licenses;
  (2) Make proposed and final assessments;
  (3) Deny protests and claims for refund;
  (4) Issue summons of garnishment;
  (5) Enter into agreements extending statutory periods of limitation;
  (6) Issue, amend, and cancel tax executions; and
  (7) Execute all documents and papers necessary for the performance of his or her or the commissioner's duties or for the exercise of his or her authority or the authority of the commissioner which has been delegated to him or her in writing.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-88, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
