# § 10-13-3. Deposits into escrow accounts; violations

(1) Become a participating manufacturer (as that term is defined in section II(jj) of the Master Settlement Agreement) and generally perform its financial obligations under the Master Settlement Agreement; or
(2)
  (A) Place into a qualified escrow fund on a quarterly basis, no later than 30 days after the end of each calendar quarter in which sales are made, the following amounts (as such amounts are adjusted for inflation):
    (i) 1999: $0.0094241 per unit sold after the date of enactment of this chapter;
    (ii) 2000: $0.0104712 per unit sold;
    (iii) For each of 2001 and 2002: $0.0136125 per unit sold;
    (iv) For each of 2003 through 2006: $0.0167539 per unit sold; and
    (v) For each of 2007 and each year thereafter: $0.0188482 per unit sold.
  (B) A tobacco product manufacturer that places funds into escrow pursuant to subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall receive the interest or other appreciation on such funds as earned. Such funds themselves shall be released from escrow only under the following circumstances:
    (i) To pay a judgment or settlement on any released claim brought against such tobacco product manufacturer by the state or any releasing party located or residing in the state. Funds shall be released from escrow under this division:
      (I) in the order in which they were placed into escrow; and
      (II) only to the extent and at the time necessary to make payments required under such judgment or settlement;
    (ii) To the extent that a tobacco product manufacturer establishes that the amount it was required to place into escrow on account of units sold in the state in a particular year was greater than the Master Settlement Agreement payments, as determined pursuant to section IX(i) of that Agreement including, after final determination of all adjustments, that such manufacturer would have been required to make on account of such units sold had it been a participating manufacturer, the excess shall be released from escrow and revert back to such tobacco product manufacturer; or
    (iii) To the extent not released from escrow under division (i) or (ii) of this subparagraph, funds shall be released from escrow and revert back to such tobacco product manufacturer 25 years after the date on which they were placed into escrow.
  (C) Each tobacco product manufacturer that elects to place funds into escrow pursuant to this paragraph shall quarterly and annually certify to the Attorney General that it is in compliance with this paragraph. The Attorney General may bring a civil action on behalf of the state against any tobacco product manufacturer that fails to place into escrow the funds required under this paragraph. Any tobacco product manufacturer that fails in any calendar quarter or year to place into escrow the funds required under this paragraph shall:
    (i) Be required within 15 days to place such funds into escrow as shall bring it into compliance with this paragraph. The court, upon a finding of a violation of this paragraph, may impose a civil penalty (to be paid to the general fund of the state) in an amount not to exceed 5 percent of the amount improperly withheld from escrow per day of the violation and in a total amount not to exceed 100 percent of the original amount improperly withheld from escrow;
    (ii) In the case of a knowing violation, be required within 15 days to place such funds into escrow as shall bring it into compliance with this Code section. The court, upon a finding of a knowing violation of this paragraph, may impose a civil penalty (to be paid to the general fund of the state) in an amount not to exceed 15 percent of the amount improperly withheld from escrow per day of the violation and in a total amount not to exceed 300 percent of the original amount improperly withheld from escrow; and
    (iii) In the case of a second knowing violation, be prohibited from selling cigarettes to consumers within the state (whether directly or through a distributor, retailer, or similar intermediary) for a period not to exceed two years.
  (D) An importer shall be jointly and severally liable for escrow deposits due from a nonparticipating manufacturer with respect to any nonparticipating manufacturer cigarettes that it imported and which were then sold in this state. Each failure to make a quarterly or annual deposit required under this Code section shall constitute a separate violation.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 472,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 469, § 1, eff. 5/7/2004.
See 2004 Ga. Laws 469, § 2.
