# § 12-4-142. Definitions

(1) "Cave" means any naturally occurring subterranean cavity, including, but not restricted to, a cavern, pit, pothole, natural well, sinkhole, and grotto.
(2) "Commercial cave" means any cave with improved trails and lighting utilized by the owner for the purpose of exhibition to the general public as a profit or nonprofit enterprise, wherein a fee is collected for entry.
(3) "Gate" means any structure or device located so as to limit or prohibit access or entry to a cave.
(4) "Owner" means a person who owns title to land where a cave is located, including a person who owns title to a leasehold estate in such land, and specifically includes the state and any of its agencies, departments, boards, bureaus, commissions, or authorities, as well as counties, municipalities, and other political subdivisions of the state.
(5) "Sinkhole" means a closed topographic depression or basin, generally draining underground, including, but not restricted to, a doline, limesink, or sink.
(6) "Speleothem" means a natural mineral formation or deposit occurring in a cave, including, but not restricted to, stalagmites, stalactites, helectites, anthodites, gypsum flowers, gypsum needles, angel's hair, soda straws, draperies, bacon, cave pearls, popcorn (coral), rimstone dams, columns, palettes, and flowstone. Speleothems are commonly composed of calcite, epsomite, gypsum, aragonite, celestite, and other similar minerals.
(7) "Wildlife" means any vertebrate or invertebrate animal life indigenous to this state or any species introduced or specified by the Board of Natural Resources and includes, but is not restricted to, quadrupeds, mammals, birds, fish, amphibians, reptiles, crustaceans, and mollusks, or any part thereof.
