# § 12-4-1. Powers and duties of Environmental Protection Division as to mineral and geological resources

(a) The Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources shall:
  (1) Conduct studies in the field for the purposes expressed in this subsection;
  (2) Map and prepare reports of the geological and mineral resources of the state;
  (3) Prepare, or cooperate in preparing, topography maps for use as base maps in the geological field study and in mining development, and for use in planning power developments, agriculture and reclamation work, and highways;
  (4) Make hydrographic surveys which are deemed by the division to be advantageous to the mining and milling of mineral deposits, to the utilization of waterpower, or to reclamation, or which are deemed to constitute proper cooperative investigations with other departments of the state or federal governments in aid of laboratory research relating to mining and to metallurgical problems of the state's mining and mineral industry; and
  (5) Publish in print or electronically bulletins embodying reports provided by the division.
(b) It shall be the duty of the division to conduct cooperative work relating to mines, mining, and geology with the departments and bureaus of the United States government, provided that the federal expenditure for such work shall at least equal that of the state.
(c) The director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources may appoint technical assistants who shall be in the classified service as defined by Code Section 45-20-2.
(d) The functions, duties, and powers of the former Department of Mines, Mining, and Geology are transferred to and vested in the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
(e) The Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources shall have charge of the work of mines, mining, and geology.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-6, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
