# § 12-4-48. Actions by director to enforce part; civil penalties; effect of Code section on cause of action by royalty owners, lienholders, or other claimants

(a) Whenever the director has reason to believe that any person is violating the provisions of this part or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this part, the director may issue an administrative order to that person. The order shall specify the provisions of this part alleged to have been violated and shall order that corrective action be taken within a reasonable period of time prescribed in the order. Any such order shall become final and enforceable unless the person or persons named therein request in writing a hearing before an administrative law judge appointed by the board no later than 30 days after the issuance of the order.
(b) Whenever the director finds that an emergency exists requiring immediate action to protect the public interest, the director may issue a provisional order reciting the existence of such an emergency and requiring that such action be taken as is reasonably necessary to meet the emergency under the circumstances, provided that such an emergency order shall be issued only after an affidavit has been filed with the director showing specific facts of such an emergency condition. Such order shall be effective immediately. Any person against whom such order is directed shall upon appropriate notice comply therewith immediately but on application to the director shall be afforded a hearing before an administrative law judge appointed by the board within ten days of receipt of such application by the director or, if the party applying so requests, within 48 hours of receipt of such application by the director. Prior to such hearing, the director shall be authorized to modify or revoke such order. After the hearing, the administrative law judge shall be authorized to make such order as is just and reasonable, including an order continuing, revoking, or modifying such provisional order.
(c) Whenever the director has reason to believe that any person is violating any provision of this part or any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to this part, the director may bring an action against such person in the proper superior court to restrain such person or persons from continuing such violations. In such action, the director may seek injunctions, including temporary restraining orders and temporary injunctions, without the necessity for showing lack of an adequate remedy at law.
(d) Any person who willfully or negligently violates any provision of this part, any rule or regulation adopted under this part, or any permit or final or emergency order of the director shall be subject to a civil penalty of not less than $50.00, but in any event not to exceed $10,000.00 for each act of violation. Each day of continued violation shall subject such person to a separate civil penalty. An administrative law judge appointed by the board, after a hearing shall determine whether or not any person has violated any provision of this part or any rule or regulation adopted under this part or any permit or final or emergency order of the director, and shall upon proper finding issue an order imposing such civil penalties as provided in this Code section. Any person so penalized under this Code section is entitled to judicial review. In this connection, all hearings and proceedings for judicial review under this Code section shall be in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." All civil penalties recovered by the director as provided by this chapter shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the general fund.
(e) In addition to any other enforcement remedy available to the director under this part, all illegal minerals and illegal products are declared to be contraband and forfeited to the state in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9, except that:
  (1) Any seizure of contraband shall be delivered to the director or his or her duly authorized agent;
  (2) Illegal minerals shall only be forfeited as provided for in Code Section 9-16-12; and
  (3) Property seized pursuant to this subsection shall not be required to be stored in an area within the jurisdiction of the court if such storage is not possible.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall deny or abridge any cause of action a royalty owner, lienholder, or other claimant may have against any persons whose acts result in the forfeiture of the illegal oil, illegal gas, or illegal product.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 481,§ 1, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 3-9, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 12, eff. 2/12/2001.
