# § 2-9-1. Definitions

(1) "Agricultural products" includes fruits, vegetables, pecans, and cotton but does not include dairy products, tobacco, grains, eggs, and other basic farm crops.
(2) "Dealer in agricultural products" means any person, association, itinerant dealer, partnership, or corporation engaged in the business of buying, receiving, selling, exchanging, negotiating, or soliciting the sale, resale, exchange, or transfer of any agricultural products purchased from the producer or his or her agent or representative or received on consignment from the producer or his or her agent or representative or received to be handled on a net return basis from the producer. The term "dealer in agricultural products" also includes any person buying, selling, processing, or shelling pecan nuts, including any and every kind and variety of pecan nuts.
(3) "Net return basis" means a purchase for sale of agricultural products from a producer or shipper at a price which is not fixed or stated at the time the agricultural products are shipped from the point of origin. The term includes all purchases made "at the market price," "at net worth," and on similar terms indicating that the buyer is the final arbiter of the price to be paid.
(4) "On consignment" means any receiving or sale of agricultural products for the account of a person, other than the seller, wherein the seller acts as the agent for the owner.
(5) "Producer" means any producer of agricultural products.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 262,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
