# § 50-20-2. Definitions

(1) "Corrective action plan" means a plan of corrective action prepared by the nonprofit organization which addresses each audit finding included in the auditor's report. The corrective action plan shall provide the name or names of the contact person or persons responsible for the corrective action, the corrective action planned, and the anticipated completion date. If the nonprofit organization does not agree with audit findings or believes corrective action is not required, the corrective action plan shall then include an explanation and specific reasons.
(2) "Generally accepted accounting principles" means generally accepted accounting principles specified in generally accepted auditing standards issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants.
(3) "Generally accepted auditing standards" means auditing standards issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants for the conduct and reporting of financial audits.
(4) "Generally accepted government auditing standards" means generally accepted government auditing standards issued by the comptroller general of the United States, which are applicable to financial audits.
(5) "Nonprofit organization" means any corporation, trust, association, cooperative, or other organization that is operated primarily for scientific, educational, service, charitable, or similar purposes in the public interest; is not organized primarily for profit; and uses its net proceeds to maintain, improve, or expand its operations. The term nonprofit organization includes nonprofit institutions of higher education and hospitals. For financial reporting purposes guidelines issued by the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants should be followed in determining nonprofit status.
(6) "Reporting package" means a package of documents containing a specified audit report, a summary schedule of prior year audit findings, and a corrective action plan for unresolved prior year and current year audit findings. Each audit report should include a schedule of findings and questioned costs and, if deemed necessary by the head of the contracting state organization, a schedule of state awards expended.
(7) "Schedule of state awards expended" means a schedule arranged by state program name and contract number which reflects revenues, expenditures, or expenses and amounts owed to or due from each state organization. Amounts listed for each program should include state or federal funds, or both, which pass through state organizations to the nonprofit contractor.
(8) "State awards" means state or federal funds, or both, received from state organizations through contractual agreement.
(9) "State awards expended" means the disbursement or obligation of state awards by a nonprofit organization.
(10) "State funds" means that portion of contracts funded by state appropriations or other revenue sources retained by the contracting state organization but does not include federal pass-through assistance. State funds represent the basis for determination of appropriate audit requirements set forth in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 50-20-3.
(11) "State organization" means any organization included within the state financial reporting entity. Such organizations include all departments, boards, bureaus, commissions, authorities and other such organizations whose financial activities and balances are included within the State of Georgia Comprehensive Annual Financial Report.
(12) "Summary schedule of prior year audit findings" means a schedule reporting the status of all audit findings included in the prior audit's schedule of findings and questioned costs. The schedule shall also include audit findings reported in the prior audit's summary schedule of prior audit findings which were listed as uncorrected.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 50, eff. 2/24/2013.
