# § 50-20-5. State organizations required to report to state auditor

(a) It shall be the duty of the contracting state organization to determine the financial viability of the nonprofit organization as described in subsection (a) of Code Section 50-20-3 before entering into a financial agreement with a nonprofit organization and to monitor the performance of the nonprofit organization under terms of the financial agreement.
(b) State organizations entering into agreements with nonprofit organizations shall report to the state auditor all such agreements and shall provide each individual nonprofit organization's name, fiscal year end, contract amount, and other information as required by the state auditor.
(c) When contracting with a nonprofit organization, a state organization shall provide the nonprofit organization with the following financial and compliance information:
  (1) Identification of any state funds included as part of the contract. Such identification should include the contract number;
  (2) Identification of any federal pass-through assistance included as part of the contract. Such identification should include the Catalog of Federal Domestic Assistance number; and
  (3) Identification of requirements imposed by federal laws, regulations, and the provisions of contracts as well as any state or supplementary requirements imposed by state law or the contributing state organization.
(d) State organizations contracting with nonprofit organizations shall review the corrective action plans to ensure that appropriate corrective action has been taken by the nonprofit organization. If the corrective action listed is determined to be inappropriate, the state organization should formally request additional corrective action by the nonprofit organization. No state organization shall transfer to a nonprofit organization any public funds from any source if a nonprofit organization does not take appropriate corrective action for findings determined to be significant by the state organization.
