# § 43-10A-8. Eligibility for licensure

(1) Having met the education, training, and experience requirements of Code Section 43-10A-11, 43-10A-12, or 43-10A-13 regarding that specialty for which a license is sought;
(2) Having successfully passed the examination established for that specialty under Code Section 43-10A-9, except that persons meeting the requirements of subparagraph (a)(2)(A) of Code Section 43-10A-13 shall not be required to pass such examination;
(3) Having paid any required license fee;
(4) All persons licensed under this article who were licensed after April 26, 2006, are required to have completed a graduate level course or equivalent related to diagnosing and shall complete such curriculum in order to renew the license or apply for licensure; and
(5) Having satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for the issuance of a license under this Code section shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. Any such applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 813,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 287,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
