# § 43-10A-11. Requirements for licensure as associate professional counselor or professional counselor; use of title

(a) The education, experience, and training requirements for licensure in professional counseling are as follows:
  (1) For licensure as an associate professional counselor:
    (A) A minimum of an earned master's degree or higher from a regionally accredited program in clinical counseling or counseling psychology that consists of at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours with an approved supervised internship or practicum that is primarily counseling in content as a part of the degree program; and
    (B) Registration with the board of an acceptable contract for obtaining the post-degree experience under direction and supervision that is required for licensure as a professional counselor.
  (2) For licensure as a professional counselor:
    (A) A minimum of an earned master's degree or higher from a regionally accredited program in clinical counseling or counseling psychology that consists of at least 60 semester hours or 90 quarter hours with an approved supervised internship or practicum that is primarily counseling in content as a part of the degree program; and
    (B) Two years of post-degree experience under direction and supervision in a work setting acceptable to the board.
(b) For purposes of subsection (a) of this Code section, work settings acceptable to the board may include, but are not limited to, educational, rehabilitation, career development, mental health, or community organizations.
(c) Only a person licensed as an associate professional counselor may use the title "associate professional counselor" or "licensed associate professional counselor." Associate professional counselors shall practice professional counseling only under direction and supervision and only for a period not to exceed five years while obtaining the post-degree experience required for licensure as a professional counselor.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 557,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 813,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 992, §§ 2, 3, eff. 7/1/2002.
