# § 5-3-9. Management of court proceedings

(a) The reviewing court may issue such orders and writs as may be necessary to aid in its jurisdiction and manage court proceedings under this chapter.
(b) The reviewing court shall grant continuances and enter such other orders as may be necessary to permit a just and expeditious review of a petition for review.
(c) After a petition for review is filed in the reviewing court, the reviewing court shall:
  (1) Establish filing deadlines for any necessary documents; and
  (2) Schedule any necessary proceedings or hearings.
(d) If there is more than one party plaintiff or party defendant in the case before the lower judicatory, any one or more of such parties may file a petition for review pursuant to this chapter regardless of whether other parties join in or consent to such petition for review; provided, however, that upon appeal, all parties in the case before the lower judicatory shall be bound by the final decision of the reviewing court; and provided, further, that, if damages are awarded upon such appeal, the damages shall only be recovered against the party appealing and the appealing party's security, if any, and not against a party failing or refusing to appeal.
(e) The monetary limitation provided for in paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of Code Section 15-10-2 shall not apply to any decision rendered by the reviewing court under this chapter.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
