# § 5-3-4-D-1. [Effective 7/1/2026] Jurisdiction

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, the superior and state courts shall have appellate jurisdiction pursuant to this chapter over a final judgment of a lower judicatory.
(b) The superior courts shall not have appellate jurisdiction pursuant to this chapter over any state court. The state courts shall not have appellate jurisdiction pursuant to this chapter over any superior court. In addition, neither a superior court nor a state court shall have appellate jurisdiction pursuant to this chapter over the following courts or matters:
  (1) Juvenile courts;
  (2) The Municipal Court of Columbus;
  (3) The Civil Court of Macon-Bibb County;
  (4) The Civil Court of Richmond County;
  (5) The Georgia State-wide Business Court;
  (6) The Georgia Tax Court;
  (7) A civil case in an Article 6 probate court;
  (8) An order appointing a temporary administrator or any other order not appealable from a probate court subject to this chapter; and
  (9) Any other court from which an appeal directly to the Court of Appeals or the Supreme Court is authorized.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (g) of Code Section 5-3-17, this chapter shall preempt any local law or any locally enacted law, ordinance, regulation, rule, or procedure in conflict with this chapter governing an appeal of a final judgment to a reviewing court.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 601,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2026.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 424,§ 1, eff. 4/22/2024.
Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
Repealed by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
