# § 5-3-18. Final decision by reviewing court; service; appeals

(a)
  (1) After a petition for review is reviewed under this chapter, the reviewing court shall render a final decision:
    (A) Entering a judgment upon the petition for review;
    (B) Ordering dismissal of the petition for review;
    (C) Remanding a petition for review back to the lower judicatory with instructions; or
    (D) A combination thereof.
  (2) If the final decision rendered pursuant to this Code section is a judgment upon the petition for review, it shall be in writing and specify whether the reviewing court is affirming, reversing, or vacating the final judgment of the lower judicatory.
  (3) If the final decision rendered pursuant to this Code section remands the petition for review back to the lower judicatory, it shall provide instructions to the lower judicatory for further proceedings.
(b) The clerk of the reviewing court shall serve a copy of the reviewing court's final decision regarding a petition for review on the clerk of the lower judicatory and on all parties named in the petition for review within five days after the date such decision was rendered. The clerk of the lower judicatory shall promptly notify each judge, official, or member of the lower judicatory who rendered the final judgment appealed of any final decision served on the clerk of the lower judicatory. If the lower judicatory does not have a clerk, then the clerk of the reviewing court shall serve a copy of the reviewing court's final decision on each judge, official, or member of the lower judicatory who rendered the final judgment appealed.
(c) A final decision by the reviewing court under this chapter may be appealed to the appropriate appellate court as prescribed by law.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
