# § 48-7-104. Period adjustments for incorrect withholdings or payments

(a)In general. If for any reason during any period of the calendar year more or less than the correct amount of the tax is withheld or more or less than the correct amount of the tax is paid to the commissioner, proper adjustment without interest may be made in any subsequent period of the same calendar year. No adjustment under this Code section shall be made with respect to an underpayment for any period after receipt from the commissioner of notice and demand for payment of the amount of the underpayment based upon an assessment. The amount of the underpayment shall be paid in accordance with the notice and demand. No adjustment under this Code section shall be made with respect to an erroneous payment or overpayment for any period after the filing of a claim for refund of the payment.
(b)Less than correct amount of tax withheld.
  (1) If no tax or less than the correct amount of the tax is deducted from any wage payment and the error is ascertained prior to the filing of the return for the period in which the wages are paid, the employer shall report on the return and pay to the commissioner the correct amount of the tax required to be withheld. If the error is not ascertained until after the filing of the return for the period in which the wages are paid, the undercollection may be corrected by an adjustment on the return for any subsequent period of the same calendar year subject to the limitations noted in subsection (a) of this Code section. The amount of any undercollection adjusted in accordance with this paragraph shall be paid to the commissioner without interest at the time prescribed for payment of the tax for the period in which the adjustment is made.
  (2) If no tax or less than the correct amount of the tax is withheld from any wage payment, the employer may correct the error by deducting the amount of the undercollection from any remuneration of the employee under the employer's control after the employer ascertains the error. The deduction may be made even though the remuneration, for any reason, does not constitute wages.
(c)More than correct amount of tax withheld.
  (1) If in any period more than the correct amount of tax is deducted from any wage payment, the overcollection may be paid to the employee in any period of the same calendar year. If the amount of the overcollection is so paid, the employer shall obtain and keep as part of his records the endorsed canceled check or written receipt of the employee showing the date and amount of the payment.
  (2) If any overcollection in any period is paid to and receipted for by the employee prior to the time the return for the period is filed with the commissioner, the amount of the overcollection shall not be included in the return for that period.
  (3) Subject to the limitations provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, if an overcollection in any period is paid to and receipted for by the employee after the return for the period is filed and the tax is paid to the commissioner, the overcollection may be corrected by an adjustment on the return for any subsequent period of the same calendar year.
  (4) Every overcollection not paid to and receipted for by the employee as provided in this subsection must be reported and paid to the commissioner with the return for the period in which the overcollection is made.
