# § 48-7-40.21. Tax credits for existing business enterprises undergoing qualified business expansion

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Broadcasting" means the transmission or licensing of audio, video, text, or other programming content to the general public, subscribers, or to third parties via radio, television, cable, satellite, or the internet or IP and includes motion picture and sound recording, editing, production, postproduction, and distribution. Such term is limited to establishments classified under the 2007 North American Industry Classification System Codes 515, broadcasting; 519, internet publishing and broadcasting; 517, telecommunications; and 512, motion picture and sound recording industries.
  (2) "Existing business enterprise" means any business or the headquarters of any such business which is engaged in manufacturing, warehousing and distribution, processing, telecommunications, broadcasting, tourism, or research and development industries that has been in operation in this state for at least five years. Such term shall not include retail businesses.
  (3) "Qualified business expansion" means the creation of at least 500 new full-time jobs within a taxable year.
(b) An existing business enterprise undergoing a qualified business expansion shall be eligible to make application to the commissioner to take tax credits established by Code Section 48-7-40 against such taxpayer's quarterly or monthly payment under Code Section 48-7-103 subject to the following limitations:
  (1) Such application may be made only where the amount of such credit exceeds 50 percent of an existing business enterprise's liability for taxes imposed under this article in a taxable year. In such cases where the existing business enterprise has claimed and not used credits established by Code Section 48-7-40 prior to April 4, 2001, and such credits have been carried forward pursuant to subsection (h) of Code Section 48-7-40, the taxpayer may also include in the application a request to take such credits against such taxpayer's quarterly or monthly payment under Code Section 48-7-103;
  (2) Following the commissioner's referral of the application to a panel composed of the commissioner of community affairs, the commissioner of economic development, and the director of the Office of Planning and Budget, said panel, after reviewing the application, certifies that the expansion will have a beneficial economic effect on the region for which it is planned;
  (3) The credit shall apply to not more than five taxable years;
  (4) Credit shall not be allowed during a year if the net employment increase falls below the 500 new full-time jobs required; and
  (5) No credit in excess of $5 million may be claimed pursuant to the terms of this Code section.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, any credit claimed pursuant to this Code section shall be subject to recapture if the minimum job requirement is not met.
(d) Each employee whose employer receives credit against such taxpayer's quarterly or monthly payment under Code Section 48-7-103 shall receive credit against his or her income tax liability under Code Section 48-7-20 for the corresponding taxable year for the full amount which would be credited against such liability prior to the application of the credit provided for in this Code section. Credits against quarterly or monthly payments under Code Section 48-7-103 and credits against liability under Code Section 48-7-20 established by this Code section shall not constitute income to the taxpayer.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 48, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 730,§ 5, eff. 5/14/2008.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 19, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 48, eff. 4/18/2002.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 25, § 2, eff. 4/4/2001.
