# § 48-7-103. Quarterly, monthly, and jeopardy returns; tax payments; forms

(a) Every employer whose tax withheld or required to be withheld is $200.00 or less per month is required to file and remit payment to the department on or before the last day of the month following the end of the quarter.
(b)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, every employer whose tax withheld or required to be withheld is $50,000.00 or less in the aggregate for the lookback period is required to file and remit payment to the department on or before the fifteenth day of the following month; provided, however, that the commissioner shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to permit the filing of such returns on a quarterly basis.
  (2) Every employer whose tax withheld or required to be withheld exceeds $50,000.00 in the aggregate for the lookback period must remit the withheld taxes pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (f) of Code Section 48-2-32 and shall file returns pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (3) Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection to the contrary, for employers whose tax withheld or required to be withheld exceeds $100,000.00 for the payday, the taxes must be remitted by the next banking day.
  (4) For purposes of this subsection, the lookback period for each calendar year shall be the 12 month period which ended the preceding June 30.
(c) If the commissioner has reason to believe that the collection of the tax required to be paid under this article is in jeopardy for any reason, he or she may require the employer to make a return and pay the required tax at any time.
(d) The commissioner is authorized to prescribe forms and to promulgate rules and regulations which the commissioner deems necessary in order to effectuate this Code section and shall be authorized to permit the filing of returns or the remitting of payments thereunder on an annual basis if agreed to by the taxpayer.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 48, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 343, § 9, eff. 6/3/2003.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 48, eff. 4/18/2002.
