# § 48-7-127. Other violations of article; penalties

(a)Willful failure to withhold tax.
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person who is required to deduct and withhold the tax imposed by Code Section 48-7-101 willfully to fail, in making payments of wages for any payroll period, to deduct and withhold the required tax from the wages paid to any employee.
  (2) In addition to any other penalties provided by law, any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for each such payroll period.
(b)Willful failure to pay over withheld tax.
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person who has deducted and withheld any amount from an employee's wages as a tax required under Code Section 48-7-101 willfully to fail, within the prescribed time, to pay the amount over to the commissioner as required under Code Section 48-7-103.
  (2) In addition to any other penalties provided by law, any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
  (3) For purposes of this subsection, a lack of funds existing immediately after the payment of wages, whether or not created by the payment of the wages, shall not negate willfulness.
(c)Willful failure to file return or pay estimated tax.
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person who is required under this article or regulations pursuant to this article to file any return of any tax or pay estimated tax or to keep any record, willfully to fail to file the return or pay the tax or to keep the records at the time or times required by law or regulation.
  (2) In addition to any other penalties provided by law, any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d)False exemption certificate or failure to supply information.
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any individual who is required to supply information to his employer under Code Section 48-7-102 willfully to supply false or fraudulent information or willfully to fail to supply information under Code Section 48-7-102 which would require an increase in the tax to be withheld under Code Section 48-7-102.
  (2) In lieu of any penalty otherwise provided, any individual who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(e)False withholding receipts or failure to furnish receipts.
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person who is required to furnish to an employee the receipt prescribed in Code Section 48-7-105 willfully to furnish a false or fraudulent receipt or willfully to fail to furnish the receipt at the time, in the manner, and showing the information required by law or regulation.
  (2) In lieu of any other penalty provided by law, except the penalty provided in subsection (d) of Code Section 48-7-126, any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for each such receipt or failure.
(f)Attempts to evade or defeat tax.
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to attempt in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed under this article or the payment of any tax imposed under this article.
  (2) In addition to any other penalties provided by law, any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(g)Willful failure to pay corporate estimated tax.
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any officer, director, or employee of a corporation required under this article or regulations pursuant to this article to file estimated tax willfully to be responsible for the failure of the corporation to pay any installment of estimated tax due.
  (2) In addition to any other penalties provided by law, any individual who violates any provision of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor for each such failure.
(h)Violation of notice of delinquency.
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to violate the provisions of subsection (c) of Code Section 48-7-108 with respect to notice of delinquency.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection with respect to notice of delinquency shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(i)Failure to comply with notice of special accounting.
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to fail to comply with a notice of the commissioner requiring compliance with subsection (b) of Code Section 48-7-109.1, providing for special accounting under the current income tax payment law.
  (2) In addition to other penalties provided by law, any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor unless there was a reasonable doubt as to whether the law required collection of the tax or as to who was required by law to collect the tax or the failure to comply was due to circumstances beyond his control.
  (3) For the purposes of this subsection, a lack of funds existing immediately after the payment of wages, whether or not created by the payment of such wages, shall not be considered to be circumstances beyond the control of a person.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 496, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 525, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
