# § 48-7-40.5. Tax credits for employers providing approved retraining programs

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Approved retraining" means employer provided or employer sponsored retraining that meets the following conditions:
    (A) It enhances the functional skills of employees otherwise unable to function effectively on the job due to skill deficiencies or who would otherwise be displaced because such skill deficiencies would inhibit their utilization of new technology; provided, however, that approved retraining shall not include any retraining on commercially, mass produced software packages for word processing, data base management, presentations, spreadsheets, email, personal information management, or computer operating systems except a retraining tax credit shall be allowable for those providing support or training on such software;
    (B) It is approved and certified by the Technical College System of Georgia; and
    (C) The employer does not require the employee to make any payment for the retraining, either directly or indirectly through use of forfeiture of leave time, vacation time, or other compensable time.
  (2) "Cost of retraining" means direct instructional costs as defined by the Technical College System of Georgia including instructor salaries, materials, supplies, and textbooks but specifically excluding costs associated with renting or otherwise securing space.
  (3) "Employee" means any employee resident in this state who is employed for at least 25 hours a week and who has been continuously employed by the employer for at least 16 consecutive weeks.
  (4) "Employer" means any employer upon whom an income tax is imposed by this chapter.
  (5) "Employer provided" refers to approved retraining offered on the premises of the employer or on premises approved by the Technical College System of Georgia by instructors hired by or employed by an employer.
  (6) "Employer sponsored" refers to a contractual arrangement with a school, university, college, or other instructional facility which offers approved retraining that is paid for by the employer.
(b) A tax credit shall be granted to an employer who provides or sponsors one or more approved retraining programs in a taxable year. The total amount of the tax credit allowed per full-time employee shall be equal to one-half of the costs of retraining per full-time employee, or $500.00 per full-time employee, whichever is less, for each employee who has successfully completed an approved retraining program; provided, however, that in no event shall the amount of the tax credit authorized under this subsection exceed $1,250.00 per year per full-time employee who has successfully completed more than one approved retraining program. No employer shall receive a credit if the employer requires that the employee reimburse or pay the employer for the cost of retraining.
(c) Any tax credit claimed under this Code section for any taxable year beginning on or after January 1, 1998, but not used for any such taxable year may be carried forward for five years from the close of the taxable year in which the tax credit was granted. The tax credit granted to any employer pursuant to this Code section shall not exceed 50 percent of the amount of the taxpayer's income tax liability for the taxable year as computed without regard to this Code section. Notwithstanding Code Section 48-2-35, any tax credit claimed under this Code section shall be claimed within one year of the earlier of the date the original return was filed or the date such return was due as prescribed in subsection (a) of Code Section 48-7-56, including any approved extensions.
(d) To be eligible to claim the credit granted under this Code section, the employer shall certify to the department the name of the employee, the coursework successfully completed by such employee, the name of the provider of the approved retraining, and such other information as may be required by the department to ensure that credits are only granted to employers who provide or sponsor approved retraining pursuant to this Code section and that such credits are only granted to employers with respect to employees who successfully complete such approved retraining. The department shall adopt rules and regulations and forms to implement this credit program. The department is expressly authorized and directed to work with the Technical College System of Georgia to ensure the proper granting of credits pursuant to this Code section.
(e) The Technical College System of Georgia is expressly authorized and directed to establish such standards as it deems necessary and convenient in approving employer provided and employer sponsored retraining programs. In establishing such standards, the Technical College System of Georgia shall establish required hours of classroom instruction, required courses, certification of teachers or instructors, progressive levels of instruction, and standardized measures of employee evaluation to determine successful completion of a course of study.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 598,§ 1-19, eff. 1/1/2025, app. only to unused tax credits generated during taxable years beginning on or after 1/1/2025.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 48, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 129,§ 3, eff. 5/4/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2008.
