# § 48-7-64. Tax exempt contributions to the Technical College System of Georgia Foundation for scholarships awards

(a) Each Georgia income tax return form for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2023, shall contain appropriate language, to be determined by the state revenue commissioner, offering the taxpayer the opportunity to contribute to the Technical College System of Georgia Foundation by donating either all or any part of any tax refund due, by authorizing a reduction in the refund check otherwise payable, or by contributing any amount over and above any amount of tax owed by adding that amount to the taxpayer's payment. The instructions accompanying the income tax return form shall contain a description of the purposes for which this fund was established and the intended use of moneys received from the contributions. Each taxpayer required to file a state income tax return who desires to contribute to the foundation may designate such contribution as provided in this Code section on the appropriate income tax return form.
(b) The Department of Revenue shall determine annually the total amount so contributed and shall transmit such amount to the Technical College System of Georgia Foundation, which is a nonprofit 501(c)(3) corporation that supports the Technical College System of Georgia through marketing, advocacy, and fundraising to benefit college programs, faculty, and students. All contributions received by such organization pursuant to this Code section shall be used exclusively to award scholarships to the Technical College System of Georgia to veterans with service-connected disabilities as such term is defined in 38 U.S.C. Section 101(16).

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 642,§ 2, eff. 4/18/2022, app. to all taxable years beginning on or after 1/1/12023.
