# § 48-7-29.19. Procedures, conditions, and limitations for the tax credits for purchasers of alternative fuel heavy-duty and medium-duty vehicles

(a) A taxpayer seeking to claim a tax credit under the provisions of Code Section 48-7-29.18 shall submit an application to the commissioner for preapproval of such tax credit. Before any such application for such tax credit is filed, the applicant shall have completed the purchase and shall have registered the qualified vehicle or vehicles in this state. The application shall include:
  (1) Certification from the Department of Natural Resources that the vehicle is an alternative fuel heavy-duty vehicle, or alternative fuel medium-duty vehicle, as defined in Code Section 48-7-29.18;
  (2) A sworn affidavit from the taxpayer certifying that the vehicle shall accumulate at least 75 percent of its mileage in Georgia in each year for a five-year period, that is registered in Georgia and shall remain registered in Georgia for no less than five years; and
  (3) Any other information requested by the commissioner pursuant to a rule or regulation promulgated hereunder. The commissioner shall create and make available the forms to be used for such applications. Within 60 days of receipt of a properly completed application, the commissioner shall preapprove the application if a sufficient amount of available tax credits remain.
(b) The commissioner shall preapprove the tax credits based on the order in which properly completed applications were submitted. In the event that two or more applications were submitted on the same day and the amount of funds available will not be sufficient to fully fund the tax credits requested, the commissioner shall prorate the available funds between or among the applicants.
(c) In no event shall the aggregate amount of the tax credits preapproved by the commissioner for all taxpayers under the provisions of this Code section exceed the amounts specified in subsection (c) of Code Section 48-7-29.18.
(d) The commissioner shall be authorized to promulgate any rules and regulations necessary to implement and administer the provisions of this Code section, including provisions for repayment of any credit in the event any of the certifications of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section are or become untrue during the five-year period following the date of application.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 355,§ 1, eff. 4/4/2014.
See 2014 Ga. Laws 355, § 2.
