# § 48-7-116. Installment payments of estimated tax by individuals

(a)In general. The amount of estimated tax required to be paid by an individual shall be paid as follows:
  (1) If the estimate is filed on or before April 15 of the taxable year, the estimated tax shall be paid in four equal installments. The first installment shall be paid on or before April 15. The second and third installments shall be paid on or before June 15 and September 15, respectively, of the taxable year. The fourth installment shall be paid on January 15 of the succeeding year;
  (2) If the estimate is filed after April 15 and not after June 15 of the taxable year and is not required by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-7-115 to be filed on or before April 15 of the taxable year, the estimated tax shall be paid in three equal installments. The first installment shall be paid at the time of the filing of the estimate, the second installment shall be paid on September 15 of the taxable year, and the third installment shall be paid on January 15 of the succeeding year;
  (3) If the estimate is filed after June 15 and not after September 15 of the taxable year and is not required by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-7-115 to be filed on or before June 15 of the taxable year, the estimated tax shall be paid in two equal installments. The first installment shall be paid at the time of the filing of the estimate and the second installment shall be paid on January 15 of the succeeding year;
  (4) If the estimate is filed after September 15 of the taxable year and is not required by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-7-115 to be filed on or before September 15 of the taxable year, the estimated tax shall be paid in full at the time of the filing of the estimate; or
  (5) If the estimate is filed after the time prescribed in subsection (a) of Code Section 48-7-115 including, but not limited to, cases in which an extension of time for filing has been granted, paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of this subsection shall not apply, and all installments of estimated tax which would have been payable on or before such time if the estimate had been filed within the time prescribed in subsection (a) of Code Section 48-7-115 shall be paid at the time of the filing. The remaining installments shall be paid at the times at which, and in the amounts in which, they would have been payable if the estimate had been so filed.
(b)Farmers and fishermen. If an individual referred to in subsection (b) of Code Section 48-7-115, relating to income from farming and fishing, files estimated tax after September 15 of the taxable year and on or before January 15 of the succeeding year, the estimated tax shall be paid in full at the time of the filing.
(c)Fiscal years. In the application of this Code section to a taxable year beginning on any date other than January 1, there shall be substituted for the months specified in this Code section the months which correspond to the months specified in this Code section.
(d)Installments paid in advance. At the election of the individual, any installment of the estimated tax may be paid prior to the date prescribed for its payment.
