# § 48-7-163. Collection of debts through setoff; minimum debt; procedure; exceptions; request for setoff; administrative collection assistance fee

(a) A claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts may submit any debt or debts when each such debt is in excess of $25.00 to the department for collection through setoff under the procedures established by this article, except in cases where the validity of the debt is legitimately in dispute, an alternate means of collection is pending and believed to be adequate, or such collection would result in a loss of federal funds or federal assistance.
(b) Upon request of a claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts, the department shall set off any refund against the debt certified by the claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts as provided in this article.
(c) An administrative collection assistance fee shall be imposed on each such debt submitted by the Administrative Office of the Courts to the department to recover the costs incurred by the Administrative Office of the Courts and the department in collecting debts under this article. The fee shall be in addition to the debt to be set off and shall be fixed such that the proceeds of the fee shall not exceed the total direct and indirect costs to the Administrative Office of the Courts and the department for administering such debt setoff collection. In no event shall the amount of such fee exceed $20.00 per debt. The Administrative Office of the Courts shall reimburse the department from the proceeds of such fee based upon the actual costs incurred by the department. Such proceeds shall be retained and expended pursuant to Code Section 45-12-92.1.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 478,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2015.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 450, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
