# § 48-7-164. Procedure for setoffs and notification of taxpayers; certification of debts; transfer of refunds to claimant agency; notice to taxpayers; transferred funds in escrow account; costs borne by claimant agency

(a)
  (1) Within a time frame specified by the department, a claimant agency seeking to collect a debt through setoff shall supply the information necessary to identify each debtor whose refund is sought to be set off, including but not limited to such debtor's social security number, and shall certify the amount of the debt or debts owed by each debtor.
  (2) The Administrative Office of the Courts shall supply the information necessary to identify each debtor whose refund is sought to be set off, including but not limited to such debtor's social security number, and shall certify the amount of the debt or debts owed by each debtor.
  (3) The department may rely upon the certification by a claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts that the debt is valid and owed by the debtor and that such debt may be validly collected by the department under this article. No employee or agent of the department shall be liable to any person for collecting any such debt that was not valid and owed by the debtor.
(b)
  (1) If a debtor identified by a claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts is determined by the department to be entitled to a refund of at least $25.00, the department shall transfer an amount equal to the refund owed, not to exceed the amount of the claimed debt certified, to the claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts. When the refund owed exceeds the claimed debt and administrative collection assistance fee, the department shall send the excess amount to the debtor within a reasonable time after the excess is determined.
  (2) When the amount of the setoff available for claims is insufficient for the combined total of the claims filed by courts, distribution of the available setoff funds shall be made in the order of the date each court claim is received by the Administrative Office of the Courts. Such claim shall remain active until sufficient additional setoff funds become available to set off the remainder of the debt or until the claims themselves expire by law.
  (3) If the department is able to collect only part of a debt through setoff under this article, the administrative collection assistance fees shall have priority over the remainder of the debt.
(c) At the time of the transfer of funds to a claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts pursuant to this Code section, the department shall notify the taxpayer or taxpayers whose refund is sought to be set off and the claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts that the transfer has been made. The notice shall clearly set forth the name of the debtor, the manner in which the debt arose, the amount of the claimed debt, the transfer of funds to the claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts pursuant to this Code section and the intention to set off the refund against the debt, the amount of the refund in excess of the claimed debt, the taxpayer's opportunity to give written notice to contest the setoff within 30 days of the date of mailing of the notice, the name and mailing address of the claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts to which the application for a hearing must be sent, and the fact that failure to apply for a hearing in writing within the 30 day period will be deemed a waiver of the opportunity to contest the setoff. In the case of a joint return, the notice shall also state the name of any taxpayer named in the return against whom no debt is claimed, the fact that a debt is not claimed against such taxpayer, the fact that such taxpayer is entitled to receive a refund if it is due him or her regardless of the debt asserted against his or her spouse, and that in order to obtain a refund due him or her such taxpayer must apply in writing for a hearing with the claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts named in the notice within 30 days of the date of the mailing of the notice. If a taxpayer fails to apply in writing for a hearing within 30 days of the mailing of the notice, he or she will have waived his or her opportunity to contest the setoff.
(d) Upon receipt of funds transferred from the department pursuant to this Code section, the claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts shall deposit and hold the funds in an escrow account until a final determination of the validity of the debt. Any interest accruing on proceeds in such escrow account shall not constitute any part of the setoff funds being held in escrow and shall be retained by the claimant agency or the Administrative Office of the Courts to cover administrative costs.
(e) The claimant agency shall pay the department for all costs incurred by the department in setting off debts in the manner provided in this article.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 478,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2015.
