# § 48-7-21.1. Compensation paid by taxpayer disallowed as business expense

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Authorized employee" means any individual whose hiring for employment or continuing employment in the United States does not violate the provisions of 8 U.S.C. Section 1324a.
  (2) "Basic pilot program" shall mean the electronic verification of a work authorization program of the Illegal Immigrant Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996, P. L. 104-208, Division C, Section 1324a note, and operated by the United States Department of Homeland Security.
  (3) "Labor services" means the physical performance of services in this state.
(b) On or after January 1, 2008, no payment or compensation or other remuneration, including but not limited to wages, salaries, bonuses, benefits, in-kind exchanges, expenses, or any other economic benefit, paid for labor services to an individual totaling $600.00 or more in a taxable year, may be claimed and allowed as a deductible business expense for state income tax purposes by a taxpayer unless such individual is an authorized employee. The provisions of this subsection shall apply whether or not an Internal Revenue Service Form 1099 or Form W-2 is issued in conjunction with such payments, compensation, or other remuneration.
(c) This Code section shall not apply to any business which:
  (1) Has enrolled and participates in the basic pilot program; or
  (2) Is exempt from compliance with federal employment verification procedures under federal law which makes the employment of unauthorized aliens unlawful.
(d) This Code section shall not apply to any individual hired by the taxpayer prior to January 1, 2008.
(e) This Code section shall not apply to any taxpayer where the individual being paid is not directly compensated or employed by said taxpayer.
(f) This Code section shall not apply to payments, compensation, or other remuneration paid for labor services to any individual who holds and presents to the taxpayer a valid license or identification card issued by the Georgia Department of Driver Services.
(g) The commissioner is authorized to prescribe forms and promulgate rules and regulations deemed necessary in order to administer and effectuate this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 147,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 457,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2007.
