# § 48-7-102. Withholding exemption status

(a)
  (1) A zero exemption status shall apply to any employee receiving wages who, on the withholding exemption certificate required under subsection (c) of this Code section, disclaims any exemption status or who fails to file with his employer the withholding exemption certificate required under subsection (c) of this Code section.
  (2) A single exemption status shall be available to any employee receiving wages who at the time cannot qualify for a marital exemption or who disclaims a marital exemption, unless such employee is an individual who is eligible to be claimed as a dependent on another taxpayer's federal income tax return in which case a zero exemption status shall apply.
  (3) A marital exemption status shall be available to any employee receiving wages who at the time is married and living with his spouse, but only if his spouse does not have in effect at that time a withholding exemption certificate claiming a single or marital exemption.
(b) An employee receiving wages shall be entitled on any day to one withholding dependency exemption for each individual with respect to whom he may reasonably be expected to be entitled to an exemption for the taxable year under Code Section 48-7-26.
(c)
  (1) On or before the date of the commencement of employment with any employer, the employee shall furnish the employer with a signed withholding certificate in the form prescribed by the commissioner relating to his withholding exemption status and the number of dependency exemptions which the employee claims. No exemption may be claimed to which the employee is not entitled. If the employee fails to furnish such completed certificate or furnishes erroneous information on such certificate to the employer, the employer will withhold as if the exemption status were single and zero until a withholding certificate is received which contains complete or corrected information, as necessary.
  (2) Except as otherwise provided by rules or regulations of the commissioner, if an employee has filed with his employer an exemption certificate as required for federal withholding tax purposes, an employer may give effect to the exemption status and exemptions claimed on the federal exemption certificate when the certificate contains sufficient information to enable the employer to give effect to the withholding exemptions allowable under this Code section.
  (3) Whenever during a calendar year the withholding exemption status of an employee or the number of dependency exemptions to which an employee is entitled changes or whenever an employee reasonably expects such a change before the end of the calendar year which would entitle the employee to different withholding exemptions than those shown on the exemption certificate in effect for the employee, the employee shall file with his employer within ten days of the change or, for the next calendar year, on or before December 20 a new certificate indicating the change. In no event shall the withholding exemption status or the number of dependency exemptions claimed on a certificate exceed the number to which the employee is entitled.
  (4)
    (A) A withholding exemption certificate furnished the employer when no previous certificate is in effect shall take effect as of the beginning of the first payroll period ending, or as of the first payment of wages made without regard to a payroll period, on or after the date on which the certificate is so furnished.
    (B) A withholding exemption certificate furnished the employer when a previous certificate is in effect shall take effect with respect to the first payment of wages made on or after the first status determination date which occurs at least 30 days from the date on which the certificate is so furnished. At the election of the employer, the certificate may be made effective with respect to any payment of wages made on or after the date on which the certificate is so furnished. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term "status determination date" means January 1 and July 1 of each year.
  (5) A withholding exemption certificate which takes effect under this subsection shall continue in effect with respect to the employer until another certificate takes effect under this subsection. Each withholding exemption certificate which is in effect is, at the time of the receipt of any wages, a present representation of fact subject to the criminal penalties of Code Section 48-7-127.
