# § 48-7-40.1B. Tax credit for jobs created by manufacturers of medical equipment, medical supplies, pharmaceuticals, or medicine

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Establishment" means an economic unit at a single physical location where business is conducted or where services or industrial operations are performed.
  (2) "Medical equipment and supplies manufacturer" means any business which is engaged in the manufacturing of medical equipment and supplies in this state. Such term shall be limited to establishments classified under the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Industry Code 3391 - Medical Equipment and Supplies Manufacturing. Such term shall not include retail businesses that sell medical equipment or supplies.
  (3) "Pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturer" means any business which is engaged in the manufacturing of pharmaceuticals or medicine in this state. Such term shall be limited to establishments classified under the North American Industry Classification System (NAICS) Industry Code 3254 - Pharmaceutical and Medicine Manufacturing. Such term shall not include retail businesses that sell pharmaceuticals or medicine.
(b)
  (1) When any medical equipment and supplies manufacturer or pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturer is qualified to claim a job tax credit pursuant to Code Section 48-7-40 or 48-7-40.1, for a qualifying job created on or after July 1, 2021, there shall be allowed an additional $1,250.00 per job tax credit against the tax imposed under this article for those qualifying jobs to the extent that they are engaged in the qualifying activities of manufacturing medical equipment or supplies or manufacturing pharmaceuticals or medicine in this state during the taxable year. Such medical equipment and supplies manufacturer or pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturer shall be eligible for such additional per job tax credit at an individual establishment of the business. If more than one business activity is conducted at an establishment, then only the jobs engaged in the qualifying activities of manufacturing medical equipment or supplies or manufacturing pharmaceuticals or medicine in this state shall be eligible for such additional per job tax credit.
  (2) The additional tax credit provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be claimed separately from the job tax credit under Code Section 48-7-40 or 48-7-40.1 but shall, except as provided in this Code section, be allowed subject to the conditions and limitations set forth in Code Section 48-7-40 or 48-7-40.1 and shall be in addition to the credit allowed under Code Section 48-7-40 or 48-7-40.1; provided, however, that the amount allowed to offset taxes imposed by this article shall be 100 percent; and provided, further, that when such tax credit exceeds a business enterprise's liability for taxes imposed by this article in a taxable year, the excess may be taken as a credit against such business enterprise's quarterly or monthly payment under Code Section 48-7-103 in the same manner as provided under Code Section 48-7-40 or 48-7-40.1 but not subject to the dollar limitations provided therein. Additionally, such tax credit shall be disallowed during any year in which a business enterprise does not qualify as a medical equipment and supplies manufacturer or as a pharmaceutical and medicine manufacturer.
  (3) The additional tax credit provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection may be used in conjunction with the tax credit provided for under Code Section 48-7-40.15.
(c) The additional tax credit provided for under paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be subject to the following conditions and limitations:
  (1) Any tax credit claimed under subsection (b) of this Code section but not used in any taxable year may be carried forward for five years from the close of the taxable year in which the qualified jobs were established; and
  (2) No taxpayer shall be eligible for the tax credit provided for under subsection (b) of this Code section for any job for which the taxpayer claims the tax credit provided for under Code Section 48-7-40.1A, or for any job claimed pursuant to Code Section 48-7-40 or 48-7-40.1 prior to July 1, 2021.
(d) This Code section shall be effective as of July 1, 2021, and shall be applicable to taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2021.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 598,§ 1-15, eff. 1/1/2025, app. only to unused tax credits generated during taxable years beginning on or after 1/1/2025.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 166,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2021.
