# § 48-7-40.16. Tax credits for alternative fuel, low-emission and zero-emission vehicles, and electric vehicle chargers

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Alternative fuel" means methanol, denatured ethanol, and other alcohols; mixtures containing 85 percent or more by volume of methanol, denatured ethanol, and other alcohols with gasoline or other fuels; natural gas; liquefied petroleum gas; hydrogen; coal derived liquid fuels; fuels other than alcohol derived from biological materials; and electricity, including electricity from solar energy.
  (2) "Clean fueled vehicle" means a motor vehicle which has been certified by the Environmental Protection Agency to meet, for any model year, a set of emission standards that classifies it as a low-emission vehicle or zero emission vehicle.
  (3) "Conventionally fueled vehicle" means a motor vehicle which is fueled solely by a petroleum based fuel such as gasoline or diesel.
  (4) "Converted vehicle" means a motor vehicle that is retrofitted so that it is fueled solely by an alternative fuel and which meets the emission standards set forth for that class of low-emission vehicles as defined under rules and regulations of the Board of Natural Resources applicable to clean fueled vehicles, as amended, when operating on such alternative fuel, or which meets the emission standards set forth for zero emission vehicles as defined under rules and regulations of the Board of Natural Resources.
  (5) "Low-emission vehicle" means a motor vehicle which is fueled solely by an alternative fuel and which meets emission standards as defined under rules and regulations of the Board of Natural Resources applicable to clean fueled vehicles classified as low-emission vehicles, as amended, when operating on such alternative fuel.
  (6) "Motor vehicle" means any self-propelled vehicle designed for transporting persons or property on a street or highway that is registered by the Department of Revenue, except vehicles that are defined as "low-speed vehicles" in paragraph (25.1) of Code Section 40-1-1.
  (7) "Zero emission vehicle" means a motor vehicle which has zero tailpipe and evaporative emissions as defined under rules and regulations of the Board of Natural Resources applicable to clean fueled vehicles, as amended, and shall include an electric vehicle whose drive train is powered solely by electricity, provided said electricity is not provided by any on-board combustion device.
(b)
  (1) A tax credit is allowed against the tax imposed under this article to a taxpayer for the purchase or lease of a new low-emission vehicle or new zero emission vehicle that is registered in the State of Georgia. The amount of the credit shall be:
    (A) For any new low-emission vehicle, 10 percent of the cost of such vehicle or $2,500.00, whichever is less; and
    (B) For any new zero emission vehicle, 20 percent of the cost of such vehicle or $5,000.00, whichever is less.
  (2) For any new low-emission vehicle or new zero emission vehicle purchased or leased on or after July 1, 2015, the amount of the credit shall be $0.00.
(c) A tax credit is allowed against the tax imposed under this article to a taxpayer for the conversion of a conventionally fueled vehicle to a converted vehicle that is registered in the State of Georgia. The amount of the credit shall be equal to 10 percent of the cost of conversion, not to exceed $2,500.00 per converted vehicle.
(d) A tax credit is allowed against the tax imposed under this article to any business enterprise for the purchase or lease of each electric vehicle charger that is located in the State of Georgia. The amount of the credit shall be 10 percent of the cost of the charger or $2,500.00, whichever is less.
(e) The credits granted under this Code section shall be subject to the following conditions and limitations:
  (1) All claims for any credit provided by subsection (b) of this Code section shall be:
    (A) Accompanied by a certification approved by the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources; and
    (B) Made only by a taxpayer who is the owner of a new clean fueled vehicle, as evidenced by the certificate of title issued for such vehicle; provided, however, that, if a new clean fueled vehicle is leased to a taxpayer at retail, the taxpayer who is the lessee shall be entitled to claim the credit; provided, further, that only one taxpayer shall be eligible to claim any credit provided by subsection (b) of this Code section;
  (2) All claims for any credit provided by subsection (c) of this Code section must be accompanied by a certification issued by the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources;
  (3) All claims for any credit provided by subsection (d) of this Code section shall be:
    (A) Accompanied by a certification issued by the seller where the new electric vehicle charger was purchased or leased; and
    (B) Made only by a taxpayer who is the ultimate purchaser or lessee of a new electric vehicle charger at retail;
  (4) Any credit claimed under this Code section but not used in any taxable year may be carried forward for three years from the close of the taxable year in which a new clean fueled vehicle was purchased or leased or a conventionally fueled vehicle was changed into a converted vehicle, provided that the applicable certification required in paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection accompanies any such claim;
  (5) In no event shall the amount of any tax credit provided in this Code section exceed the taxpayer's income tax liability; and
  (6) Tax credits authorized in this Code section shall be granted to a taxpayer who purchased or leased and placed in service in Georgia a new low-emission vehicle or zero emission vehicle, which also is a low-speed vehicle, but only if such low-speed vehicle was placed in service during the taxable year ending December 31, 2001. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "low-speed vehicle" means a low-speed vehicle as defined in paragraph (25.1) of Code Section 40-1-1. Any claim for such credit must be accompanied by a manufacturer's statement of origin issued to a dealer registered in Georgia which certifies that the low-speed vehicle was manufactured in compliance with those federal motor vehicle safety standards set forth in 49 C.F.R. Section 571.500 and in effect on January 1, 2001, as well as any other documentation deemed necessary by the commissioner to establish the date that delivery was made and such vehicle was placed in service. A taxpayer shall only be eligible to claim such credit with respect to a single low-speed vehicle.
(f) The state revenue commissioner shall be authorized to adopt rules and regulations to provide for the administration of any tax credit provided by this Code section.
(g) The Board of Natural Resources shall be authorized to adopt rules and regulations to provide for:
  (1) The specific standards and requirements for low-emission vehicles, zero emission vehicles, and converted vehicles and electric vehicle chargers which shall be consistent with the terms of this Code section;
  (2) An approved certification form which certifies the purchase or lease of a new clean fueled vehicle that is qualified for a tax credit provided by this Code section;
  (3) The certification of any converted vehicle that is qualified to claim a tax credit provided by this Code section; and
  (4) An approved certification form which shall be issued by the seller which certifies the purchase or lease of a new electric vehicle charger that is qualified for a tax credit provided by this Code section.
(h) This Code section shall stand repealed and reserved on December 31, 2029.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 598,§ 2-2, eff. 1/1/2025.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 598,§ 1-26, eff. 1/1/2025, app. only to unused tax credits generated during taxable years beginning on or after 1/1/2025.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 46,§ 5-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 29-5, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 343, § 6, eff. 6/3/2003.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 501, § 15, eff. 4/25/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 501, § 14, eff. 4/25/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 500, § 1, eff. 4/25/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 48, eff. 4/18/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 26, § 1, eff. 4/4/2001.
See 2003 Ga. Laws 343, § 47.
