# § 48-7-165.1. Hearing; final determination of debt

(a)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, if the Administrative Office of the Courts receives written notice from the debtor contesting the setoff or the sum upon which the setoff is based within 30 days of the debtor being notified of the debt setoff, the Administrative Office of the Courts shall notify the court to whom the debt is owed that the sum due and owing shall not be disbursed pursuant to this article until the court to whom the debt is owed has granted a hearing to the debtor and obtained a final determination on the debt under this Code section and provided evidence of such final determination to the Administrative Office of the Courts. Such sum due and owing shall not be disbursed to the debtor or the court to whom the debt is owed prior to such final determination.
  (2) The hearing required under this Code section shall be conducted after notice of such hearing is provided to the debtor by certified mail or personal service. When personal service is utilized, such personal service shall be made by the officers of the court designated by the judges of that court or any other officers authorized by law to serve process.
(b)
  (1) The officers of the court designated by the judges of that court submitting debts to the Administrative Office of the Courts shall appoint a hearing officer for the purpose of conducting hearings under this Code section. The officers of the court shall adopt appropriate procedures to govern the conducting of hearings by the hearing officer. A written or electronic copy of such procedures shall be provided to a debtor immediately upon the receipt of notice from a debtor under subsection (a) of this Code section.
  (2) Issues that have been previously litigated shall not be considered at a hearing. The hearing officer shall determine whether the debt is owed to the court and the amount of the debt. Such determination shall be in writing and shall be provided to the debtor and the Administrative Office of the Courts within five days after the date the hearing is conducted.
  (3) If the debtor or the court disagrees with the determination of the hearing officer, either party may appeal that determination by filing a petition in the superior court not later than ten days following the date of the hearing officer's written determination. The superior court judge shall conduct a hearing and shall render a final determination in writing and shall transmit a copy to the hearing officer, the debtor, and the Administrative Office of the Courts not later than ten days after the date of that hearing.
  (4) The losing party to such proceeding as provided for in paragraph (3) of this subsection shall pay any filing fees and costs of service, except that the officers of the court designated by the judges of that court shall be authorized to waive such fees and costs. The court submitting the debt to the Administrative Office of the Courts shall be responsible for attorneys' fees of the debtor who is contesting the setoff in cases where the superior court finds in favor of the debtor.
(c) If a court submits a debt for collection under this article following final determination of the debt in accordance with this Code section and the Administrative Office of the Courts is notified by the department that no refund proceeds are available or sufficient for setoff of the entire debt, such claim shall remain valid until sufficient refund proceeds are available for setoff as provided in subsection (b) of Code Section 48-7-164 and are not subject to further appeal.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 478,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2015.
