# § 48-7-29.22. [Repealed Effective 12/31/2026] Tax credits for certain medical preceptor rotations

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Advanced practice registered nurse student" means an individual participating in a training program in this state that is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting body for advanced practice registered nursing programs for the training of individuals to become advanced practice registered nurses as defined in Code Section 43-26-3.
  (2) "Community based faculty preceptor" means an individual who is a physician as defined in Code Section 43-34-21, an advanced practice registered nurse as defined in Code Section 43-26-3, or a physician assistant as defined in Code Section 43-34-102 and who is licensed as such by this state.
  (3) "Medical student" means an individual participating in a training program in this state that is approved by the Georgia Composite Medical Board for the training of doctors of medicine or doctors of osteopathic medicine.
  (4) "Physician assistant student" means an individual participating in a training program in this state that is approved by the Georgia Composite Medical Board for the training of individuals to become physician assistants as defined in Code Section 43-34-102.
  (5) "Preceptorship rotation" means a period of preceptorship training of one or more medical students, physician assistant students, or advanced practice registered nurse students that in aggregate totals 160 hours.
  (6) "Preceptorship training" means uncompensated community based training of a medical student, advanced practice registered nurse student, or physician assistant student matriculating in a training program in Georgia.
(b)
  (1) A community based faculty preceptor shall be allowed a credit against the tax imposed by Code Section 48-7-20 if he or she conducts a preceptorship rotation.
  (2) Such credit shall be accrued on a per preceptorship rotation basis in the amount of $500.00 for the first, second, or third preceptorship rotation and $1,000.00 for the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, or tenth preceptorship rotation completed in one calendar year by a community based faculty preceptor who is a physician as defined in Code Section 43-34-21 and $375.00 for the first, second, or third preceptorship rotation and $750.00 for the fourth, fifth, sixth, seventh, eighth, ninth, or tenth preceptorship rotation completed in one calendar year by a community based faculty preceptor who is an advanced practice registered nurse as defined in Code Section 43-26-3 or a physician assistant as defined in Code Section 43-34-102.
  (3) An individual shall not accrue credit for more than ten preceptorship rotations in one calendar year.
(c)
  (1) A community based faculty preceptor shall not be eligible to earn hours credited toward preceptorship training if he or she has not registered with the state-wide Area Health Education Centers (AHEC) Program Office at Augusta University.
  (2) The AHEC Program Office at Augusta University shall administer the Preceptor Tax Incentive Program and certify preceptorship rotations for the department on behalf of all eligible public and private training programs for medicine, osteopathic medicine, advanced practice nursing, and physician assistant at institutions in this state for the department.
(d) To receive the credit allowed by this Code section, a community based faculty preceptor shall claim such credit on his or her return for the tax year in which he or she completed the preceptorship rotation; shall certify that he or she did not receive payment during such tax year from any source for the training of a medical student, advanced practice registered nurse student, or physician assistant student; and shall submit supporting documentation as prescribed by the commissioner.
(e) In no event shall the total amount of the tax credit under this Code section for a taxable year exceed the taxpayer's income tax liability. No such tax credit shall be allowed the taxpayer against prior or succeeding years' tax liability.
(f)
  (1) On August 1, 2020, and annually thereafter, the commissioner and the AHEC Program Office at Augusta University shall issue a report to the Governor, the chairperson of the Senate Finance Committee, and the chairperson of the House Committee on Ways and Means concerning the tax credit created by this Code section.
  (2) Such report shall include, for the prior calendar year, the:
    (A) Number of community based faculty preceptors claiming a credit;
    (B) Total number of preceptorship rotations completed;
    (C) Number of medical students, advanced practice registered nurse students, and physician assistant students who participated in a preceptorship rotation; and
    (D) Total amount of credits awarded pursuant to this Code section.
(g) The commissioner shall be authorized to promulgate any rules and regulations necessary to implement and administer the provisions of this Code section.
(h) This Code section shall stand repealed by operation of law at the last moment of December 31, 2026.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 236,§ 2-6, eff. 1/1/2024, app. to all taxable years beginning on or after 1/1/2024.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 48, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 44,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2019.
See 2019 Ga. Laws 44, § 5.
