# § 48-7-40.18. Tax credits for businesses headquartered in state; full-time jobs

(a) Any business enterprise, as defined in Code Section 48-7-40, executing an agreement pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 48-7-31.1 for purposes of paragraph (1) of subsection (d) of Code Section 48-7-31 shall be allowed, beginning in the taxable year in which it establishes its headquarters in this state or relocates its headquarters to this state, a tax credit calculated in the same amounts and under the same principles as the credit established by Code Section 48-7-40.17. Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, the credit established by the Code section shall be subject to the same definitions, limitations, and carry-forward provisions as the credit established by Code Section 48-7-40.17; provided, however, that the term "headquarters" means the principal central administrative office of such business enterprise; and provided, further, that for the first taxable year in which it is claimed, all or part of the credit established by this Code section may be applied against taxes imposed under this article for the taxable year immediately preceding that taxable year by amendment to a return or returns for such year.
(b) The credit established by this Code section may be claimed by such business enterprise for new full-time jobs created in taxable years prior to the taxable year in which it establishes its headquarters in this state or relocates its headquarters to this state, where such jobs are in excess of those contained in such agreement and are located at such headquarters. Such jobs shall be deemed for purposes of such credit to have been created on the first day of the taxable year in which such business enterprise establishes its headquarters in this state or relocates its headquarters to this state. No credit in excess of $25 million may be claimed pursuant to the terms of this subsection.
(c) The number of new full-time jobs to which this Code section shall be applicable shall be determined by comparing the monthly average of full-time jobs subject to Georgia income tax withholding for the taxable year with the corresponding average for the prior taxable year.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 48, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 48, eff. 4/18/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, §48, eff. 2/12/2001.
