# § 33-16-13. Amount of minimum surplus required

(a) The amount of minimum surplus required for each farmers' mutual fire insurance company shall be determined on an individual basis; however, no farmers' mutual fire insurance company shall be issued a certificate of authority unless it shall possess and thereafter maintain a minimum of $150,000.00 in surplus.
(b) Minimum surplus of up to $150,000.00 shall be maintained in any of the following:
  (1) Cash;
  (2) Certificates of deposit or similar certificates or evidence of deposits in banks or trust companies but only to the extent that the certificates or deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation; or
  (3) Savings accounts, certificates of deposit, or similar certificates or evidence of deposit in savings and loan associations and building and loan associations but only to the extent that the same are insured by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation.
(c) A portion of the minimum surplus, in an amount determined by the Commissioner, must be deposited with this state prior to the issuance of the certificate of authority. Chapter 12 of this title shall apply to the deposit required by this subsection.
(d) Any additional surplus in excess of $150,000.00 required by the Commissioner pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section may be provided and maintained in any of the following:
  (1) Any eligible investments of minimum capital or surplus authorized by Code Section 33-11-5; or
  (2) Any other investments approved by the Commissioner that do not impair the financial solvency of the farmers' mutual fire insurance company.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 727,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
