# § 33-16-4. Issuance of certificate of authority; qualifications; proposed changes to plan of operation

(a) No person shall transact or attempt to transact business as a farmers' mutual fire insurance company unless so authorized by an effective certificate of authority issued by the Commissioner.
(b) The Commissioner shall not issue or permit to exist any certificate of authority as to any insurer not qualified for such certificate unless it is shown to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that:
  (1) The farmers' mutual fire insurance company maintains the minimum surplus required by subsection (a) of Code Section 33-16-13;
  (2) The farmers' mutual fire insurance company maintains a security deposit as required by subsection (c) of Code Section 33-16-13;
  (3) The farmers' mutual fire insurance company has submitted an acceptable business plan to the Commissioner that includes, but is not limited to, two-year financial projections and supporting assumptions reflecting expected premiums and losses, counties where the farmers' mutual fire insurance company intends to insure property, and the contingent liability, if any, of its members; and
  (4) It must otherwise be in compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(c) Any proposed changes to a farmers' mutual fire insurance company's plan of operation subsequent to licensure pursuant to this chapter, including but not limited to geographical expansion, shall be filed and approved in advance by the Commissioner.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-77, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 727,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
