# § 7-4-12.1. Interest on child support and domestic relations orders; settlement of unreimbursed public assistance

(a) All awards, court orders, decrees, or judgments rendered pursuant to Title 19 expressed in monetary amounts shall accrue interest at the rate of 7 percent per annum commencing 30 days from the date such award, court order, decree, or judgment is entered or an installment payment is due, as applicable. The court may modify the date on which interest shall begin to accrue. It shall not be necessary for the party to whom the child support is due to reduce any such award to judgment in order to recover such interest. The court shall have discretion in applying or waiving past due interest. In determining whether to apply, waive, or reduce the amount of interest owed, the court shall consider whether:
  (1) Good cause existed for the nonpayment of the child support;
  (2) Payment of the interest would result in substantial and unreasonable hardship for the parent owing the interest;
  (3) Applying, waiving, or reducing the interest would enhance or detract from the parent's current ability to pay child support, including the consideration of the regularity of payments made for current child support of those dependents for whom support is owed; and
  (4) The waiver or reduction of interest would result in substantial and unreasonable hardship to the parent to whom interest is owed.
(b) Subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be construed to abrogate the authority of the Department of Human Services to waive, reduce, or negotiate a settlement of unreimbursed public assistance in accordance with subsection (b) of Code Section 19-11-5.
(c) Notwithstanding Code Section 7-4-12, 7-4-15, 9-12-10, or 13-6-13, when an award, court order, decree, or judgment for alimony or equitable division of assets and liabilities is payable in installments, interest on such award, court order, decree, or judgment shall not begin to accrue until an installment is 30 days past due unless otherwise ordered by the court.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 242,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 16,§ 1, eff. 4/2/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 7, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 650,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 52,§ 3, eff. 4/22/2005.
