# § 49-1-7. Home delivered meals, transportation, services for the elderly, and preschool children with special needs fund

(a) The General Assembly finds that it is in the best interest of the state to provide for programs for home delivered meals, transportation services for the elderly, and preschool children with special needs, including but not limited to disabled children, troubled children, school readiness programs, and other similar needs for the benefit of the citizens of Georgia. In addition to and as a supplement to traditional financing mechanisms for such programs, it is the policy of this state to enable and encourage citizens voluntarily to support such programs.
(b) To support programs for home delivered meals, transportation services for the elderly, and preschool children with special needs which programs have been established or approved by the department or the Department of Community Health, the department may, without limitation, promote and solicit voluntary contributions through the income tax return contribution mechanism established in subsection (f) of this Code section, through offers to match contributions by any person with moneys appropriated or contributed to the department or the Department of Community Health for such programs, or through any fund raising or other promotional techniques deemed appropriate by the department or the Department of Community Health.
(c) There is established a special fund to be known as the "Home Delivered Meals, Transportation Services for the Elderly, and Preschool Children with Special Needs Fund." This fund shall consist of all moneys contributed under subsection (b) of this Code section, all moneys transferred to the department under subsection (f) of this Code section, and any other moneys contributed to this fund or to the home delivered meals, transportation services for the elderly, or preschool children with special needs programs of the department or the Department of Community Health and all interest thereon. All balances in the fund shall be deposited in an interest-bearing account identifying the fund and shall be carried forward each year so that no part thereof may be deposited in the general treasury. The fund shall be administered and the moneys held in the fund shall be expended by the department through the Division of Aging Services in furtherance of home delivered meals and transportation services to the elderly programs and by the Department of Community Health in furtherance of preschool children with special needs programs.
(d) Following the transmittal of contributions to the department for deposit in the fund pursuant to subsection (f) of this Code section, the expenditure of moneys in the fund shall be allocated as follows:
  (1) Fifty percent of the contributions to the fund shall be used for home delivered meals and transportation services to the elderly programs; and
  (2) Fifty percent of the contributions to the fund shall be transferred to the Department of Community Health to be used for preschool children with special needs programs.
(e) Contributions to the fund shall be deemed supplemental to and shall in no way supplant funding that would otherwise be appropriated for these purposes. Contributions shall only be used for benefits and services and shall not be used for personnel or administrative positions. The department and the Department of Community Health shall each prepare, by February 1 of each year, an accounting of the funds received and expended from the fund and a review and evaluation of all expended moneys of the fund. The reports shall be made available to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, to the members of the Board of Human Services, and, upon request, to members of the public.
(f)
  (1) Unless an earlier date is deemed feasible and established by the Governor, each Georgia income tax return form for taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 1993, shall contain appropriate language, to be determined by the state revenue commissioner, offering the taxpayer the opportunity to contribute to the Home Delivered Meals, Transportation Services for the Elderly, and Preschool Children with Special Needs Fund established in subsection (c) of this Code section by either donating all or any part of any tax refund due, by authorizing a reduction in the refund check otherwise payable, or by contributing any amount over and above any amount of tax owed by adding that amount to the taxpayer's payment. The instructions accompanying the income tax return form shall contain a description of the purposes for which this fund was established and the intended use of moneys received from the contributions. Each taxpayer required to file a state income tax return who desires to contribute to such fund may designate such contribution as provided in this Code section on the appropriate income tax return form.
  (2) The Department of Revenue shall determine annually the total amount so contributed, shall withhold therefrom a reasonable amount for administering this voluntary contribution program, and shall transmit the balance to the department for deposit in the fund established in subsection (c) of this Code section; provided, however, that the amount retained for administrative costs, including implementation costs, shall not exceed $50,000.00 per year. If, in any tax year, the administrative costs of the Department of Revenue for collecting contributions pursuant to this Code section exceed the sum of such contributions, the administrative costs which the Department of Revenue is authorized to withhold from such contributions shall not exceed the sum of such contributions.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
