# § 49-1-6. Transfer of assets of nonprofit corporation to department

(a) Any charitable or nonprofit corporation which has been granted a charter or articles of incorporation under the laws of this state may transfer all or a part of its assets to the department upon such terms as may be agreed upon between such corporation and the department, provided such corporation shall first have obtained authority to make such transfer in accordance with this Code section.
(b) Any such corporation may apply for authority to make such transfer by filing its petition with the superior court of the county in which such corporation has its principal office. Such application shall set forth the assets which the corporation desires to transfer to the department and the terms upon which it desires to transfer these assets.
(c) Such corporation, once a week for four weeks prior to the filing of such petition, shall publish notice in the newspaper of the county in which is located the principal office of the corporation, such newspaper being the newspaper in which notices of sheriff's sales are advertised. The notice shall set forth the date, time, and place when such application will be presented, the court to which it will be presented, and the assets which such corporation desires to transfer to the department.
(d) After a hearing, the court shall be authorized to grant the application and permit a transfer of the assets of the applicant upon terms as set out in the application or modified as the court may deem advisable, if the court considers this in the public interest; or the court may deny the application if the court deems such denial to be in the public interest. Where such corporation makes a transfer of all of its right, title, and interest in any of its assets to the department and such transfer is made pursuant to the authority of the court obtained in the manner provided for in this Code section, such transfer shall be conclusively deemed to be a proper and legal transfer.
(e) Should such corporation desire to transfer all of its assets to the department, the court to which such application is presented may include in its order a provision that upon the transfer by such corporation of all of its assets to the department and upon compliance with Chapter 3 of Title 14, the charter or articles of incorporation of such corporation shall stand surrendered and the corporation dissolved.
(f) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be considered as authorizing the department to accept a transfer of assets upon terms which would require the use of them by the department in a manner not authorized by law.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
