# § 49-4A-18. Prohibited possession of certain goods by youth; penalty

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Director" means the commissioner or any director of a juvenile detention center or his or her designee, or any other person who is responsible for the overall management and operation of a center.
  (2) "Juvenile detention center" means a regional youth detention center or youth development center operated by or on behalf of the department.
  (3) "Telecommunications device" means a device, an apparatus associated with a device, or a component of a device that enables, or may be used to enable, communication with a person outside a place of incarceration, including, but not limited to, a telephone, cellular telephone, personal digital assistant, transmitting radio, or computer connected or capable of being connected to a computer network, by wireless or other technology, or otherwise capable of communicating with a person or device outside of a place of incarceration.
  (4) "Youth" means an offender assigned to a juvenile detention center.
(b) Without the authorization of the director, it shall be unlawful for any person to obtain for, to procure for, or to give to a youth a gun, pistol, knife, or any other weapon; a bullet, ammunition, or any other explosive device; tobacco products; intoxicating liquor; marijuana, amphetamines, or any other hallucinogenic drugs or other drugs, regardless of the amount; any telecommunications device; or any other article or item.
(c) Without the authorization of the director, it shall be unlawful for a youth to possess a gun, pistol, knife, or any other weapon; a bullet, ammunition, or any other explosive device; tobacco products; intoxicating liquor; marijuana, amphetamines, or any other hallucinogenic drugs or other drugs, regardless of the amount; any telecommunications device; or any other article or item.
(d) Any person who violates this Code section shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than four years.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 771,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
