# § 49-4A-17. Introduction of certain items into juvenile detention facility prohibited; commerce with incarcerated youth prohibited; penalty

(a)
  (1) Without the knowledge and consent of the commissioner or the director in charge of any juvenile detention facility, it shall be unlawful for any person to take into or cause to be introduced into such facility any item which such person has been directed not to take into such center:
    (A) Verbally by a staff member of such facility;
    (B) In writing by a staff member of such facility; or
    (C) As directed by the rules, regulations, or policies of such facility.
  (2) Any item taken into a facility in violation of this subsection shall be deemed contraband and shall be subject to being confiscated and retained as property of the department.
  (3) Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than four years.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to trade or traffic with, buy from, or sell any article to a child assigned to a juvenile detention facility without the knowledge and consent of the commissioner or the director in charge of such facility. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than four years.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 3-13, eff. 1/1/2014.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 771,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
