# § 49-4A-3. Department of Juvenile Justice created; commissioner; organization and operation

(a) There is created the Department of Juvenile Justice and the position of commissioner of juvenile justice. The commissioner shall be the chief administrative officer of the department and shall be both appointed and removed by the board, subject to the approval of the Governor. The commissioner of human services shall not also serve as the commissioner of juvenile justice. Subject to the general policy and rules and regulations of the board, the commissioner shall supervise, direct, account for, organize, plan, administer, and execute the functions of the department.
(b) The department shall provide for supervision, detention, and rehabilitation of delinquent children committed to the state's custody. The department shall also be authorized to operate prevention programs and to provide assistance to local public and private entities with prevention programs for children at risk. In lieu of commitment, the department shall be authorized to provide for specialized treatment for children adjudicated for delinquent acts involving sexual offenses or controlled substances and who may have behavior disorders. The department's organization, operation, and implementation shall be based on the following:
  (1) Development of a comprehensive continuum of service options using evidence based programs or practices through flexible funding to allow providers to respond to the unique needs and capabilities of individual children and families;
  (2) Services implemented so that each child and family served can have a personal relationship with staff, providers, and workers, which staff, providers, and workers shall be trained and treated as professionals, have a range of multidisciplinary skills, and have manageable caseloads;
  (3) Services shall be based on evidence based programs or practices and be community centered and responsive to local needs with state and local and public and private entities forming cooperative partnerships that enhance informal support systems for families;
  (4) Systems that are accountable, with desired outcomes specified, results measured and evaluated, and cost-efficient options maximized;
  (5) Intersystem communication and collaboration that are encouraged and facilitated through coordination of systems so that gaps and unnecessary duplications in planning, funding, and providing services are eliminated;
  (6) Being consumer driven and responsive to the changing needs of individual communities; and
  (7) Encouraging the central location of various services whenever possible.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 3-3, eff. 1/1/2014.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
