# § 31-53-41. GAPCD Advisory Committee established; membership; terms; meeting; reimbursement for expenses; appointment of nonvoting members

(a) There is established the GAPCD Advisory Committee for the purpose of making recommendations regarding the creation of the framework and implementation plan for the GAPCD to facilitate the reporting of health care and health quality data resulting in transparent and public reporting of safety, quality, cost, and efficiency information at all levels of health care. The advisory committee shall consist of the following members:
  (1) The director, who shall serve as chairperson;
  (2) The chairperson of the Senate Appropriations Community Health Subcommittee;
  (3) The chairperson of the House Appropriations Health Subcommittee;
  (4) The director of the Office of Planning and Budget, or his or her designee;
  (5) One member from the hospital industry to be appointed by the Governor;
  (6) One member from the health care philanthropic community to be appointed by the Governor;
  (7) One member from the insurance industry to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
  (8) One member who is a medical provider to be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor;
  (9) The commissioner of public health, or his or her designee;
  (10) The commissioner of community health, or his or her designee;
  (11) The Commissioner of Insurance, or his or her designee; and
  (12) The director of the Center for Health Analytics and Informatics of the Georgia Institute of Technology.
(b) The members appointed pursuant to paragraphs (5), (6), (7), and (8) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be appointed no later than October 1, 2020; provided, however, that the advisory committee shall be operational and shall conduct its work even if one or more of such members is not timely appointed. Appointed members of the advisory committee shall each serve for a term of two years. A vacancy in an appointed seat shall be filled by appointment for the remainder of the term, and each appointing authority retains the right to reappoint members whose terms of appointment have expired.
(c) The advisory committee shall meet at the call of the chairperson and shall meet at least quarterly.
(d) Members of the advisory committee shall serve without compensation but shall be entitled to receive reimbursement for per diem and travel expenses as provided in Code Section 45-7-21.
(e) The director shall be authorized to appoint ad hoc nonvoting members to the advisory committee, convene one or more panels, and consult with experts when expertise is deemed necessary in the performance of the functions of the advisory committee.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 580,§ 1, eff. 8/5/2020.
