# § 31-53-5. Advisory committees; membership; function

(a) The director shall have the power to establish and abolish advisory committees as he or she deems necessary to inform effective strategy development and execution.
(b) Membership on an advisory committee shall not constitute public office, and no member shall be disqualified from holding public office by reason of his or her membership.
(c) An advisory committee shall elect a chairperson from among its membership.
(d) Members of an advisory committee shall serve without compensation, although each member of an advisory committee shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties from funds available to the office. Such reimbursement shall be limited to all travel and other expenses necessarily incurred through service on the advisory committee, in compliance with the state's travel rules and regulations; provided, however, that in no case shall a member of an advisory committee be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the member's capacity as the representative of another state agency.
(e) Policy proposals and strategies under consideration that arise from the efforts of an advisory committee must be presented to all members of the advisory committee with an opportunity to comment.
(f) An advisory committee shall:
  (1) Meet at such times and places as it shall determine necessary or convenient to perform its duties. An advisory committee shall also meet on the call of the director or the Governor;
  (2) Maintain minutes of its meetings;
  (3) Identify and report to the director any federal laws or regulations that may enable the state to receive and disburse federal funds for health care programs;
  (4) Advise the director if it needs additional members or resources to conduct its defined duties; and
  (5) Provide a final report with supporting documentation to the director.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 41,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2019.
