# § 14-8-46. Registered office and registered agent required for foreign limited liability partnership; Secretary of State as agent for service of process; venue

(a) Each foreign limited liability partnership that is required to procure a certificate of authority to do business in this state shall continuously maintain in this state a registered office and a registered agent at such registered office for service of process on the foreign limited liability partnership.
(b) A registered agent must be an individual resident of this state, a domestic corporation, professional corporation, or limited liability company, or a foreign corporation or limited liability company authorized to do business in this state.
(c) A foreign limited liability partnership may change its registered office or its registered agent, or both, by indicating any such change on its annual registration statement filed pursuant to Code Section 14-8-56 or by executing and delivering to the Secretary of State for filing a statement setting forth:
  (1) The name of the foreign limited liability partnership;
  (2) The street address and county of its then registered office;
  (3) If the address of its registered office is to be changed, the new street address and county of the registered office;
  (4) The name of its then registered agent; and
  (5) If its registered agent is to be changed, the name of its successor registered agent.
(d) If the Secretary of State finds that such statement conforms to subsection (c) of this Code section, the Secretary of State shall file such statement in his or her office; and upon such filing, the change of address of the registered office or the change of the registered agent, or both, as the case may be, shall become effective.
(e) A registered agent of a foreign limited liability partnership may resign as such agent upon filing a written notice thereof with the Secretary of State. The appointment of such agent shall terminate upon the expiration of 30 days after receipt of such notice by the Secretary of State. There shall be attached to such notice an affidavit of such agent, if an individual, or of an officer thereof, if a corporation, that at least ten days prior to the date of filing such notice a written notice of the agent's intention to resign was mailed to the person, and at the address, indicated in its most recently filed annual registration statement pursuant to paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of Code Section 14-8-56, or, if no annual registration statement has been filed, in its application for a certificate of authority to transact business pursuant to paragraph (8) of subsection (a) of Code Section 14-8-45. Upon such resignation becoming effective, the address of the office of the resigned registered agent shall no longer be the address of the registered office of the foreign limited liability partnership.
(f) A registered agent may change the agent's office and the address of the registered office of any foreign limited liability partnership of which the agent is the registered agent to another place within this state by filing a statement as required in subsection (c) of this Code section, except that it need be signed only by the registered agent and need not be responsive to paragraph (5) of subsection (c) of this Code section and must recite that a copy of the statement has been mailed to the person, and at the address, indicated in its most recently filed annual registration statement pursuant to paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of Code Section 14-8-56, or, if no annual registration statement has been filed, in its application for a certificate of authority to transact business pursuant to paragraph (8) of subsection (a) of Code Section 14-8-45.
(g) The registered agent of one or more foreign limited liability companies may resign and appoint a successor registered agent by filing a statement with the Secretary of State stating that the agent resigns and stating the name, street address, and county of the office of the successor registered agent. There shall be attached to such statement a statement executed by each affected foreign limited liability partnership ratifying and approving such change of registered agent. Upon such filing, the successor registered agent shall become the registered agent of each such foreign limited liability partnership as has ratified and approved such substitution, and the successor registered agent's office, as stated in such statement, shall become the registered office in this state of each such foreign limited liability partnership. The Secretary of State shall furnish to the successor registered agent a certified copy of the statement of resignation.
(h) The registered agent of a foreign limited liability partnership authorized to transact business in this state is an agent of the foreign limited liability partnership on whom may be served any process, notice, or demand required or permitted by law to be served on the foreign limited liability partnership.
(i) Whenever a foreign limited liability partnership required to procure a certificate of authority to do business in this state shall fail to appoint or maintain a registered agent in this state, or whenever its registered agent cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the registered office, the Secretary of State shall be an agent of such foreign limited liability partnership upon whom any process, notice, or demand may be served. Service on the Secretary of State of any such process, notice, or demand shall be made by delivering to and leaving with the Secretary of State or with any persons designated by the Secretary of State to receive such service a copy of such process, notice, or demand. The plaintiff or his or her attorney shall certify in writing to the Secretary of State that the foreign limited liability partnership failed either to maintain a registered office or appoint a registered agent in this state and that he or she has forwarded by registered mail or statutory overnight delivery such process, service, or demand to the last registered agent at the last registered office listed on the records of the Secretary of State and that service cannot be effected at such office.
(j) The Secretary of State shall keep a record of all processes, notices, and demands served upon him or her under this Code section and shall record therein the time of such service and his or her action with reference thereto.
(k) This Code section does not prescribe the only means, or necessarily the required means, of serving any process, notice, or demand required or permitted by law to be served on a foreign limited liability partnership.
(l) Venue in proceedings against a foreign limited liability partnership shall be determined in accordance with the pertinent constitutional and statutory provisions of this state in effect on July 1, 1994, or thereafter. For purposes of determining venue, the residence of each foreign limited liability partnership authorized to transact business in this state shall be determined in accordance with Code Section 14-2-510 as though such foreign limited liability partnership were a foreign corporation.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 364,§ 3-5 and § 4-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
