# § 14-8-2. Definitions

(1) "Bankrupt" means a person who is the subject of:
  (A) The entry of an order for relief under Section 303(h) of the Bankruptcy Code ( 11 U.S.C. Section 303(h) ) or the filing of a petition for voluntary bankruptcy under Section 301 of the Bankruptcy Code ( 11 U.S.C. Section 301 ) as these provisions may be now or hereafter amended; or
  (B) An equivalent order or petition under any successor statute or code of general application; or
  (C) An equivalent order or petition under any state insolvency Act.
(2) "Business" includes every trade, occupation, or profession.
(3) "Conveyance" includes every assignment, deed, transfer, lease (including the creation of a usufruct), mortgage or pledge of tangible, intangible, or real property, and also the creation or cancellation of any lien, encumbrance, or security title.
(4) "Court" includes every court and judge having jurisdiction in the case.
(4.1) "Foreign limited liability company" means a limited liability company formed under the laws of a jurisdiction other than this state.
(5) "Foreign limited liability partnership" means any limited liability partnership and any limited liability limited partnership formed under the laws of a jurisdiction other than this state.
(6) "Interest" means interest at the legal rate which applies where the rate percent is not named in the contract as provided by Code Section 7-4-2 or any successor statute.
(6.05) "Limited liability company" means any limited liability company formed under Chapter 11 of this title.
(6.1) "Limited liability partnership" means any partnership governed by this chapter, and any limited partnership that either is organized under Chapter 9 of this title or has elected to be subject to the provisions of Chapter 9 of this title pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 14-9-1201, that has become a limited liability partnership under Code Section 14-8-62 and that complies with Code Section 14-8-63.
(7) "Person" includes a natural person, partnership, limited liability partnership, limited partnership (domestic or foreign), trust, estate, association, or corporation. Any person may be a partner unless the person lacks capacity apart from this chapter.
(8) "Real property" includes any estate or interest, including usufructory interests, in, over, or under land, including minerals, structures, fixtures, and other things which by custom, usage, or law pass with a conveyance of land though not described or mentioned in an instrument of conveyance or in a contract to make such a conveyance.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 364,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2016.
