# § 14-8-15. Liability of partners

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, all partners are jointly and severally liable for all debts, obligations, and liabilities of the partnership.
(b) Subject to subsection (c) of this Code section and to any contrary agreement among the partners, a partner in a limited liability partnership is not individually liable or accountable either directly or indirectly by way of indemnification, reimbursement, contribution, assessment, or otherwise for any debts, obligations, or liabilities of or chargeable to the partnership or another partner, whether arising in tort, contract, or otherwise, that are incurred, created, or assumed while such partnership is a limited liability partnership, solely by reason of being such a partner or acting or omitting to act in such capacity or otherwise participating in the conduct of the activities of the limited liability partnership. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, a partner may be personally liable for tax liabilities arising from the operation of the limited liability partnership as provided in Code Section 48-2-52.
(c) Subsection (b) of this Code section shall not affect the liability of a partner in a limited liability partnership or the liability of the limited liability partnership for such partner's own errors, omissions, negligence, malpractice, wrongful acts, incompetence, or misconduct.
(d) A partner in a limited liability partnership is not a proper party to a proceeding if the object of the proceeding is to hold such partner liable either directly or indirectly by way of indemnification, reimbursement, contribution, assessment, or otherwise for liabilities for which such partner is not liable by reason of the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 302, § 2, eff. 4/27/2001.
