# § 49-10-7. Student loan repayment for mental health and substance use professionals serving in certain capacities

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Eligible applicant" means a person who:
    (A) Is a legal resident of the State of Georgia as established by rules and regulations of the board;
    (B) Is a mental health or substance use professional licensed in this state; and
    (C)
      (i) Provides services to underserved youth in this state; or
      (ii) Practices in unserved geographic areas or communities in this state that are disproportionately impacted by social determinants of health, as determined by the board.
  (2) "Mental health or substance use professional" means a psychiatrist, psychologist, professional counselor, social worker, marriage and family therapist, clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health, or other licensed mental or behavioral health clinician or specialist.
  (3) "Recipient" means an eligible applicant who applied for and was approved by the board for student loan repayment under this Code section.
  (4) "Student loan" means debt incurred by an eligible applicant that is:
    (A) Evidenced by a promissory note which required the funds received to be used to pay for the cost of attendance for the undergraduate, graduate, or professional education of the eligible applicant;
    (B) Not in default at the time of application for repayment under this Code section; and
    (C) Not subject to an existing service obligation or to repayment through another student loan repayment or loan forgiveness program or as a condition of employment.
(b) The board shall have the authority to approve the applications of eligible applicants submitted in accordance with rules and regulations established by the board governing the student loan repayment application process.
(c) The board is authorized to provide for the repayment of student loans held by recipients in consideration of the recipient performing services as a mental health or substance use professional in accordance with subparagraph (a)(1)(C) of this Code section.
(d)
  (1) Each recipient before being granted any student loan repayment shall enter into a student loan repayment agreement with the board agreeing to the terms and conditions upon which the student loan repayment is granted, including such terms and conditions set forth in this Code section.
  (2) The board shall have the power to terminate a student loan repayment agreement at any time for any cause deemed sufficient by the board, provided that such power shall not be arbitrarily or unreasonably exercised.
(e) Each student loan repayment agreement entered into under the authority granted in this Code section shall:
  (1) Provide for repayment of the recipient's student loans in a total amount to be determined by the board, but not exceeding the total student loan debt of the recipient, to be paid out in installments made each 12 months over a term of not more than five years. A student loan repayment made pursuant to this Code section shall be paid in such manner as the board shall establish by rules and regulations;
  (2) Provide that any payment made by the board under a student loan repayment agreement shall be made in consideration of services rendered by the recipient performing services as a mental health or substance use professional in accordance with subparagraph (a)(1)(C) of this Code section;
  (3) Provide that the board shall make a payment toward the recipient's student loans, in an amount set forth in the agreement, for each 12 months the recipient performs services as a mental health or substance use professional in accordance with subparagraph (a)(1)(C) of this Code section; and
  (4) Require that the recipient shall remain a legal resident of the state as established by rules and regulations of the board; maintain licensure in this state as a mental health or substance use professional; and perform services as a mental health or substance use professional in accordance with subparagraph (a)(1)(C) of this Code section at all times during the term of the agreement.
(f) The board shall adopt such rules and regulations as are reasonable and necessary to implement the provisions of this Code section.
(g) Student loan repayment for recipients having entered into a student loan repayment agreement with the board pursuant to this Code section shall be contingent upon the appropriation of funds by the General Assembly for the purposes of this Code section in annual appropriations Acts of the General Assembly.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 381,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
