# § 49-10-5. Behavioral Health Care Workforce Data Base

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Addictive disease" has the same meaning as in Code Section 37-1-1.
  (2) "Behavioral health care provider" means any health care provider regulated by a licensing board who primarily provides treatment or diagnosis of mental health or substance use disorders.
  (3) "Licensing board" means:
    (A) Georgia Composite Board of Professional Counselors, Social Workers, and Marriage and Family Therapists;
    (B) Georgia Board of Nursing;
    (C) Georgia Composite Medical Board;
    (D) State Board of Examiners of Psychologists; and
    (E) State Board of Pharmacy.
  (4) "Mental health or substance use disorder" means a mental illness or addictive disease.
  (5) "Mental illness" has the same meaning as in Code Section 37-1-1.
(b) The board shall create and maintain the Behavioral Health Care Workforce Data Base for the purposes of collecting and analyzing minimum data set surveys for behavioral health care professionals. To facilitate such data base, the board shall:
  (1) Enter into agreements with entities to create, house, and provide information to the Governor, the General Assembly, state agencies, and the public regarding the state's behavioral health care workforce;
  (2) Seek federal or other sources of funding necessary to support the creation and maintenance of a Behavioral Health Care Workforce Data Base, including any necessary staffing;
  (3) Create and maintain an online dashboard accessible on the board's website to provide access to the Behavioral Health Care Workforce Data Base; and
  (4) Establish a minimum data set survey to be utilized by licensing boards to collect demographic and other data from behavioral health care providers which are licensed by such boards.
(c) Licensing boards shall be authorized to and shall require that each applicant and licensee complete the minimum data set survey established by the board pursuant to this Code section at the time of application for licensure or renewal of such applicant or licensee to his or her licensing board. Licensing boards shall provide the board with the results of such minimum data set surveys in accordance with rules and regulations established by the board regarding the manner, form, and content for the reporting of such data sets.
(d) To the extent allowed by law, the minimum data set established by the board shall include, but shall not be limited to:
  (1) Demographics, including race, ethnicity, and primary and other languages spoken;
  (2) Practice status, including, but not limited to:
    (A) Active practices in Georgia and other locations;
    (B) Practice type and age range of individuals served; and
    (C) Practice settings, such as a hospital; clinic; school; in-home services, including telehealth services; or other clinical setting;
  (3) Education, training, and primary and secondary specialties;
  (4) Average hours worked per week and average number of weeks worked per year in the licensed profession;
  (5) Percentage of practice engaged in direct patient care and in other activities, such as teaching, research, and administration in the licensed profession;
  (6) Year of expected retirement, as applicable, within the next five years;
  (7) Whether the applicant or licensee has specialized training in treating children and adolescents, and if so, the proportion of his or her practice that comprises the treatment of children and adolescents;
  (8) Whether the applicant or licensee is or will be accepting new patients and the location or locations new patients are being or will be accepted;
  (9) Types of insurance accepted and whether the provider accepts Medicaid and Medicare; and
  (10) Other data determined by the board.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 587,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2022.
