# § 49-10-1. Board of Health Care Workforce; membership; appointment; staffing; advisory committees

(a)
  (1) The Georgia Board for Physician Workforce which existed on January 1, 2019, is continued in existence but on and after July 1, 2019, shall become and be known as the Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce, referred to in this chapter as the "board," and shall be attached to the Department of Community Health for administrative purposes only, as defined by Code Section 50-4-3, except that such department shall prepare and submit the budget for that board in concurrence with that board.
  (2) The board shall be composed of 15 members, all of whom are residents of this state, as follows:
    (A) Four members shall be primary care physicians, at least two of whom shall be from rural areas;
    (B) Four members shall be physicians who are not primary care physicians, at least two of whom shall practice in rural areas;
    (C) Three members shall be representatives of hospitals which are not teaching hospitals, with at least two of those three members being representatives of rural, nonprofit hospitals, and two of such members shall be physicians;
    (D) One member shall be a dentist;
    (E) One member shall be a physician assistant;
    (F) One member shall be a nurse practitioner; and
    (G) One member shall have no connection with the practice of medicine or the provision of health care. The physicians on the board shall represent a diversity of medical disciplines, including, but not limited to, women's health, geriatrics, and children's health, and to the greatest extent possible, shall be in the active practice of medicine providing direct patient care. The board shall represent the gender, racial, and geographical diversity of the state.
  (3) All members of the board shall be appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate. All members of the board in office on July 1, 2019, shall continue to serve as a member of the board until the expiration of his or her term of office. Successors to members shall be appointed for terms of six years. All members shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. Members appointed under this paragraph shall be eligible to serve on the board until confirmed by the Senate at the session of the General Assembly next following their appointment.
  (4) In case of a vacancy on the board by reason of death or resignation of a member or for any other cause other than the expiration of the member's term of office, the board shall by secret ballot elect a temporary successor. If the General Assembly is in session, the temporary successor shall serve until the end of that session. If the General Assembly is not in session, the temporary successor shall serve until the end of the session next following the vacancy or until the expiration of the vacated member's term of office, whichever occurs first. The Governor shall appoint a permanent successor who shall be confirmed by the Senate. The permanent successor shall take office on the first day after the General Assembly adjourns and shall serve for the unexpired term and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
  (5) The office on the board of a member thereof who fails to attend more than three consecutive regular meetings of the board, without excuse approved by resolution of the board, shall become vacant.
(b) The board shall annually elect from its membership a chair, a vice chair, and a secretary-treasurer by ballot. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chair or upon written request of a majority of the members. A majority of members then in office shall constitute a quorum and shall have the authority to act upon any matter properly brought before the board. The board shall keep permanent minutes and records of all its proceedings and actions.
(c) Each member of the board shall receive the same expense allowance per day as that received by a member of the General Assembly for each day or substantial portion thereof that such member of the board is engaged in the work of the board, in addition to such reimbursement for travel and other expenses as is normally allowed to state employees. No member of the board shall receive the above per diem for more than 30 days in any one calendar year.
(d) The Department of Community Health, with the concurrence of the board, shall have the authority to employ such administrative staff as is necessary to carry out the functions of the board. Such staff members shall be employed within the limits of the appropriations made to the board.
(e) The board, as it deems appropriate, shall have the authority to appoint advisory committees to advise the board on the fulfillment of its duties. The members of the advisory committees shall not receive any per diem or reimbursements; provided, however, that such members shall receive the mileage allowance provided for in Code Section 50-19-7 for the use of a personal car in connection with attendance at meetings called by the board.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 50,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 113,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws V3, §8, eff. 7/1/2003.
