# § 9-4-4. Declaratory judgments involving fiduciaries

(a) Without limiting the generality of Code Sections 9-4-2, 9-4-3, 9-4-5 through 9-4-7, and 9-4-9, any person interested as or through an executor, administrator, personal representative, trustee, guardian, conservator, or other fiduciary, creditor, devisee, distributee, legatee, heir, next of kin, or beneficiary in the administration of a trust or of the estate of a decedent, a minor, a ward, an incapacitated person, a protected person, a person who is otherwise legally incompetent because of mental illness or intellectual disability, or an insolvent may have a declaration of rights or legal relations in respect thereto and a declaratory judgment:
  (1) To ascertain any class of creditors, devisees, legatees, heirs, next of kin, beneficiaries, or others;
  (2) To direct the executor, administrator, trustee, or other fiduciary to do or abstain from doing any particular act in his or her fiduciary capacity;
  (3) To determine title to property in which the trust or estate has or is purported to have an ownership or other interest; or
  (4) To determine any question arising in the administration of the estate or trust, including questions of construction of wills, trust instruments, and other writings.
(b) The enumeration in subsection (a) of this Code section does not limit or restrict the exercise of general powers conferred in Code Section 9-4-2 in any proceeding covered thereby where declaratory relief is sought in which a judgment or decree will terminate the controversy or remove the uncertainty.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 508,§ 2-4, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 70,§ 4-15, eff. 7/1/2015.
