# § 45-19-23. Creation of Board of Commissioners of the Commission on Equal Opportunity; members; terms; officers; meetings; compensation of members; powers and duties of board; annual report to Governor and General Assembly; special masters' list

(a) A Board of Commissioners of the Commission on Equal Opportunity is created. The board shall consist of nine persons. Subject to confirmation by the Senate, the members of the board shall be appointed by the Governor for three-year terms, except as otherwise provided in this subsection. Of the Governor's initial appointments, three shall be for one-year terms, three shall be for two-year terms, and three shall be for three-year terms. In the event of a vacancy during the term of any member appointed by the Governor whether by reason of death, resignation, or otherwise, the appointment of a successor by the Governor shall be only for the remainder of the unexpired term. The membership of the board shall be representative of a fair and reasonable cross section of the population of the state and one-third of the members shall have experience in labor or Title VII law enforcement or other legal human rights experience; provided, however, that after July 1, 1993, at least three members of the board shall be representative of or have a background in realty, apartment management, or the building and contracting industry.
(b) The board shall annually elect a chair and such other officers as it deems appropriate and shall meet at least three times a year at a time and place specified in writing by the administrator. The board may also meet from time to time upon its own motion, as deemed necessary by a majority of the members thereof, for the purposes of conducting routine or special business. Each member of the board shall serve without pay; but the members who are not otherwise state officials or employees shall, while engaged in the official duties of the board, receive the same expense allowance and travel cost reimbursement which members of certain boards and commissions receive pursuant to Code Section 45-7-21.
(c) The board shall make a written report to the Governor and to the General Assembly by December 31 of each year. Such report shall advise the Governor and the members of the General Assembly of the board's activities and the administration of this article and shall make such recommendation for change, if any, as the board deems proper.
(d) The board shall assist the administrator of the Commission on Equal Opportunity in an advisory capacity in carrying out the duties and functions of the office including but not limited to matters relating to fair employment practices and the effectiveness of the state programs and operations.
(e) The board shall establish and certify to the Governor at the beginning of each fiscal year a list of not less than eight persons, including females and minorities, licensed to practice law in Georgia, who have experience in labor law, employment law, or administrative law, from which list the Governor may select, on the basis of rotation in sequential order, special masters as provided for in Code Section 45-19-37. The board may from time to time certify to the Governor additional persons to be added to the aforementioned list.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 395,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
