# § 45-19-36. Filing complaints of unlawful practice; action by administrator

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "respondent" means an employer charged with an alleged unlawful practice.
(b) An individual claiming to be aggrieved by an unlawful practice or another person on behalf of an individual claiming to be aggrieved by an unlawful practice may file with the administrator a written, sworn complaint stating that an unlawful practice has been committed setting forth the facts upon which the complaint is based and setting forth facts sufficient to enable the administrator to identify the employer charged. The administrator's staff shall promptly investigate the allegations of unlawful practice set forth in the complaint and, within 15 days of filing, shall serve the respondent with a copy of the complaint. The complaint shall be barred unless filed within 180 days after the alleged unlawful practice occurs.
(c) The charges contained within the complaint and answers shall be verified and may be reasonably and fairly amended at any time prior to the administrator rendering a decision as to reasonable cause to believe that the respondent has engaged in an unlawful practice.
(d) Within 90 days of the filing of the complaint, the administrator shall determine whether there is reasonable cause to believe the respondent has engaged in an unlawful practice, unless it is impracticable to do so or unless the administrator has approved a conciliation agreement with respect to the complaint. If it is determined that there is no reasonable cause to believe that the respondent has engaged in an unlawful practice, the administrator shall issue an order dismissing the complaint. If the administrator is unable to complete the investigation within 90 days of the filing of the complaint, the administrator shall notify the complainant and respondent, in writing, of the reasons for the failure to complete the investigation.
(e) Within ten days after receiving a copy of the order dismissing the complaint, the complainant may file with the administrator an application for reconsideration of the order. Upon such application, the administrator shall determine within 15 days whether there is reasonable cause to believe that the respondent has engaged in an unlawful practice. If it is again determined that there is no reasonable cause to believe that the respondent has engaged in an unlawful practice, the administrator shall issue an order dismissing the complaint and notifying the complainant that such complainant has the right to request a right to bring an action letter from the appropriate federal agency or petition for review in the appropriate superior court as provided for in Code Section 45-19-39.
(f) After investigation or after the review provided for in subsection (e) of this Code section, if the administrator determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that the respondent has engaged in an unlawful practice, then the administrator's staff shall first endeavor to eliminate the alleged unlawful practice by conference, conciliation, and persuasion. The terms of a conciliation agreement reached with a respondent may require the respondent to refrain from the commission of unlawful discriminatory practices in the future and make such further provisions as may be agreed upon between the administrator and the respondent. If a conciliation agreement is entered into, the administrator shall issue and serve on the complainant a final order stating its terms. Except for the terms of the conciliation agreement, neither the administrator nor any agent thereof shall make public without the written consent of the complainant and the respondent information concerning efforts in the particular case to eliminate an unlawful practice by conference, conciliation, or persuasion, whether or not there is a determination of reasonable cause or a conciliation agreement.
(g) In the event the administrator determines that there is reasonable cause to believe that an agency or authority has engaged in an unlawful practice as defined in this article and the administrator's staff is unable to eliminate the alleged unlawful practice by conference, conciliation, and persuasion, the administrator shall refer the complaint to a hearing officer as provided for in Code Section 45-19-37.
(h) At the expiration of one year from the date of a conciliation agreement and at other times in its reasonable discretion, the administrator's staff may investigate whether the terms of the agreement have been and are being complied with by the respondent. The administrator shall report the findings to the complainant and respondent. If the administrator finds reasonable cause to believe that the agreement has been breached, the complainant may seek enforcement of the agreement in the superior court of the county in which the alleged violation took place or in the county of the respondent's residence.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 395,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
