# § 36-76-3. Franchise options for cable service and video service providers

(a)
  (1) Any entity or person seeking to provide cable service or video service in this state after January 1, 2008, at the discretion of the cable service provider or video service provider, may elect from among the franchise options as set forth in this Code section. A cable service provider or video service provider shall not provide cable service or video service without a franchise obtained pursuant to this chapter.
  (2) A cable service provider or video service provider may elect to negotiate a local cable service or video service franchise agreement with a municipal or county franchise authority duly authorized under the laws of Georgia and may enter into a negotiated cable television franchise agreement in accordance with Title VI of the Communications Act of 1934, as amended, 47 U.S.C. Section 521 et seq., or a video service franchise agreement in accordance with applicable state and federal law that establishes the terms and conditions for the franchise agreement within the jurisdictional limits of that municipality or county. A local cable service or video service franchise agreement entered into after January 1, 2008, shall remain in force and effect through its expiration date notwithstanding subsection (g) of Code Section 36-76-4.
  (3) A cable service provider or video service provider may elect to adopt the terms of a negotiated franchise agreement entered into between a cable service provider or video service provider and a municipal or county franchise authority in the service area in which the cable service provider or video service provider desires to provide service. The municipal or county franchise authority shall be required to enter into any such negotiated franchise agreement upon the same terms and conditions to any requesting cable service provider or video service provider. A local cable service or video service franchise agreement that is adopted by a cable service provider or video service provider after January 1, 2008, shall remain in force and effect through its expiration date notwithstanding subsection (g) of Code Section 36-76-4.
  (4) A cable service provider or video service provider may elect after January 1, 2008, to file an application for a state franchise in one or more specified service areas with the Secretary of State in accordance with the procedures set forth in this chapter.
(b) The alternatives in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be mutually exclusive. A cable service provider or video service provider may elect after January 1, 2008, to negotiate with a municipal or county franchise authority to enter into a franchise agreement within a specified service area and may also obtain a state franchise for a different service area. A cable service provider or video service provider shall not operate under a franchise agreement with a municipal or county governing authority and a state franchise from the Secretary of State for the same service area.

## History

Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 368,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
