# § 36-76-6. Franchise fees

(a)
  (1) The holder of a state franchise, whether a cable service provider or a video service provider, shall pay to each affected local governing authority which complies with this Code section a franchise fee which shall not exceed the maximum percentage rate permitted in 47 U.S.C. Section 542(b) of such holder's gross revenues received from the provision of cable service or video service to subscribers located within such holder's service area.
  (2) Each affected local governing authority or its authorized designee shall provide written notice to the Secretary of State and each applicant for or holder of a state franchise with a service area located within that affected local governing authority's jurisdiction of the franchise fee rate that applies to the applicant for or holder of such state franchise. The applicant for or holder of a state franchise shall start assessing the franchise fee within 15 days of receipt of written notice from the affected local governing authority or its authorized designee and shall not be required to pay such franchise fee until the expiration of 15 days after receipt of such written notice. Any incumbent service provider who obtains a state franchise under paragraph (1) of subsection (g) of Code Section 36-76-4 shall pay its existing franchise fee during the 15 day period after receipt of written notice of the new fee. The franchise fee rate shall be uniformly applicable to all cable service providers and video service providers that obtain a state franchise within the affected local governing authority. For purposes of this Code section, an authorized designee is an agent authorized by charter or other act of the affected local governing authority.
  (3) Any affected local governing authority may change the franchise fee applicable to holders of a state franchise once every two years. The affected local governing authority or its authorized designee shall provide written notice to the Secretary of State and the applicants for or holders of a state franchise with a service area within that affected local governing authority's jurisdiction of the new franchise fee rate. The holder of a state franchise shall start assessing the new franchise fee within 45 days of receipt of written notice of the change from the affected local governing authority or its authorized designee. The franchise fee rate shall be uniformly applicable to all cable service providers and video service providers that obtain a state franchise within the affected local governing authority's jurisdiction.
(b) Such franchise fee shall be paid directly to each affected local governing authority within 30 days after the last day of each calendar quarter. Such payment shall be considered complete if accompanied by a statement showing, for the quarter covered by the payment:
  (1) The aggregate amount of the state franchise holder's gross revenues, specifically identifying subscriber and advertising and home shopping services revenues under this chapter insofar as the franchise holder's existing billing systems include such capability, attributable to such municipality or unincorporated areas of the county; and
  (2) The amount of the franchise fee payment due to such municipality or county. In the event that franchise fees are not paid on or before the dates specified above, then the affected local governing authority shall provide written notice to the franchise holder giving the cable service provider or video service provider 15 days from the date of the franchise holder's receipt of such notice to cure any such nonpayment. In the event franchise fees are not remitted to the affected local government authority postmarked on or before the expiration of the 15 day cure period, then the holder of the state franchise shall pay interest thereon at a rate of 1 percent per month to the affected local governing authority. If the 15 day cure period expires on Saturday, Sunday, or a legal holiday, the due date shall be the next business day. Moreover, the franchise holder shall not be assessed interest on late payments if franchise payments were submitted in error to a neighboring local governing authority.
(c) Each affected local governing authority may, no more than once annually, audit the business records of the state franchise holder to the extent necessary to ensure payment in accordance with this Code section. For purposes of this subsection, an audit shall be defined as a comprehensive review of the records of the holder of a state franchise. Once any audited period of a state franchise holder has been the subject of a requested audit, such audited period of such state franchise holder shall not again be the subject of any audit. In the event of a dispute concerning the amount of the franchise fee due to an affected local governing authority under this Code section, an action may be brought in a court of competent jurisdiction by an affected local governing authority seeking to recover an additional amount alleged to be due or by a state franchise holder seeking a refund of an alleged overpayment; provided, however, that any such action shall be brought within three years following the end of the quarter to which the disputed amount relates. Such time period may be extended by written agreement between the state issued franchise holder and such affected local governing authority. Each party shall bear the party's own costs incurred in connection with any such examination or dispute. In the event that an affected local governing authority files an action to recover alleged underpayments of franchise fees and a court of competent jurisdiction determines the cable service provider or video service provider has underpaid franchise fees due for any 12 month period by 10 percent or more, the cable service provider or video service provider may be required to pay the affected local governing authority its reasonable costs associated with the audit along with any franchise fee underpayments; provided, however, late payments shall not apply.
(d) The statements made pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section and any records or information furnished or disclosed by a cable service provider or video service provider to an affected local governing authority pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section shall be exempt from public inspection under Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50.
(e) No acceptance of any payment shall be construed as a release or as an accord and satisfaction of any claim an affected local governing authority may have for further or additional sums payable as a franchise fee.
(f) Any amounts overpaid by the holder of a state franchise shall be deducted from future franchise payments.
(g) The holder of a state franchise may designate that portion of a subscriber's bill attributable to any franchise fee imposed pursuant to this Code section as a separate item on the bill and recover such amount from the subscriber; provided, however, that such separate listing shall be referred to as a "franchise" or a "franchise fee."
(h) No affected local governing authority shall levy any additional tax, license, fee, surcharge, or other assessment on a cable service provider or video service provider for or with respect to the use of any public right of way other than the franchise fee authorized by this Code section. Nor shall an affected local governing authority levy any other tax, license, fee, or assessment on a cable service provider or video service provider or its subscribers that is not generally imposed and applicable to a majority of all other businesses. The franchise fee authorized by this Code section shall be in lieu of any permit fee, encroachment fee, degradation fee, or other fee that could otherwise be assessed on a state issued franchise holder for the holder's occupation or work within the public right of way; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall restrict the right of any municipal or county governing authority to impose ad valorem taxes, sales taxes, or other taxes lawfully imposed on a majority of all other businesses within such municipality or county.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 605,§ 9, eff. 4/17/2012.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 368,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
