# § 36-76-5. Transfers, modifications, and terminations of a state franchise

(a) A state franchise shall be fully transferable to any successor in interest to the applicant. A notice of transfer shall be filed by the transferee with the Secretary of State with a copy provided to each affected municipal or county governing authority within 45 days of such transfer. The transfer notification shall consist of an affidavit signed by an officer or general partner of the transferee that contains each of the following:
  (1) An affirmative declaration that the applicant shall comply with all applicable federal and state laws and regulations, including municipal and county ordinances and regulations, regarding the placement and maintenance of facilities in any public right of way that are generally applicable to all users of the public right of way and specifically including Chapter 9 of Title 25, the "Georgia Utility Facility Protection Act";
  (2) A description of the transferee's service area, including the name of each municipal or county governing authority within the service area;
  (3) The location of the transferee's principal place of business and the name or names of the principal executive officer or officers of the transferee; and
  (4) A description of material changes, if any, of the information set forth in the applicant's initial application for a state franchise.
(b) Any outstanding liabilities that have become due and are still owed to a municipal or county governing authority under a state franchise issued pursuant to this chapter shall be fully transferable under this Code section to any successor in interest to the applicant.
(c) The failure of the Secretary of State to issue an amended state franchise within 45 days of the receipt of a completed transfer notice shall constitute issuance of the requested amended state franchise to the transferee without further action required.
(d) A cable service provider or video service provider may modify its service area covered by the state franchise by notifying the Secretary of State of changes to the service area, with a copy provided to each affected municipal or county governing authority, at least 20 days prior to the effective date of such change. Such notification shall contain a geographic description of the new service area or areas and a list of each municipal or county governing authority within the service area.
(e) A state franchise issued pursuant to this chapter may be terminated by the cable service provider or video service provider by submitting a notice of termination to the Secretary of State with a copy provided to each affected municipal or county governing authority. Such notice shall identify the cable service provider or video service provider, the affected service area, and the effective date of such termination, which shall not be more than 60 days from the date of filing the notice of termination.

## History

Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 368,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
