# § 36-76-7. Customer service requirements

(a) The holder of a state franchise shall comply with the customer service standards as set forth in 47 C.F.R. 76.309(c). No franchising authority shall have the power to require the holder of a state franchise to comply with any customer service standards other than those set forth in this Code section.
(b) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of subsection (c) of this Code section, each affected local governing authority shall receive and handle complaints from subscribers of the holder of a state franchise that reside in the affected local governing authority's jurisdiction.
(c)
  (1) By December 31, 2007, the Governor's Office of Consumer Affairs shall establish a uniform set of rules, which may include fines and penalties, pursuant to which an affected local governing authority shall resolve subscriber complaints. Said rules shall include a requirement that the cable service provider or video service provider participate in mandatory nonbinding mediation with the affected local governing authority and the subscriber if the issue cannot be resolved between the cable service provider or video service provider and the subscriber. Said rules shall apply only until 50 percent of the potential subscribers within an affected local governing authority are offered service by two or more cable service providers or video service providers holding a state franchise or a local franchise.
  (2) After such time as 50 percent of the potential subscribers within an affected local governing authority are being offered service by two or more cable service providers or video service providers holding a state franchise or a local franchise, an affected local governing authority may, in its discretion, by the adoption of a resolution or ordinance, discontinue receiving and handling all subscriber inquiries, billing issues, and other complaints for state franchise holders. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, where an affected local governing authority discontinues receiving and handling subscriber inquiries, billing issues, and other complaints relating to state franchise holders by adoption of a resolution or ordinance pursuant to this paragraph, bills to subscribers by cable service providers or video service providers holding a state franchise shall not include the contact information of such affected local governing authority for the purpose of directing or initiating complaints or making other such subscriber inquiries.
(d) Rules, orders, actions, and regulations previously adopted pursuant to this Code section shall remain of full force and effect as rules, orders, actions, and regulations of the Attorney General until amended, repealed, or superseded by rules or regulations adopted by the Attorney General.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 187,§ 26, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 471,§ 36, eff. 5/12/2008.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 368,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
