# § 36-76-9. Service outlet to municipalities and counties; complimentary basic cable service or video service to public schools and public libraries

A cable service provider or video service provider shall, upon written request by a municipality or county, install, at no charge, one service outlet to a demarcation point located on the outside of any designated municipal or county building or multibuilding complex, provided such building demarcation point is within 125 feet from the cable service provider or video service provider's activated distribution point of connection. A cable service provider or video service provider shall not be required to extend its facilities beyond the appropriate demarcation point located outside the building or to perform any inside wiring. The cable service provider or video service provider shall provide complimentary basic cable service or video service to public schools and public libraries over that one service outlet free of charge, which service shall not be used for commercial purposes. The cable service provider or video service provider shall provide complimentary basic cable service or video service to public buildings other than public schools and public libraries only to the extent such a complimentary service arrangement existed under the terms of a local franchise agreement in effect as of January 1, 2007, and shall continue only until the local franchise agreement would have expired under its own terms; provided, however, that such provider shall not be precluded from providing such additional complimentary service at its option. The municipality or county may not receive service at the same building from more than one cable service provider or video service provider at a time under this Code section.

## History

Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 368,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
