# § 12-8-208. Exceptions to limitation of liability

(a) The limitation of liability provided by subsection (a) of Code Section 12-8-207 shall be contingent upon the prospective purchaser's good faith implementation of the corrective action plan as approved by the director as well as the certification of compliance with the risk reduction standards and corrective action requirements. Such limitation of liability shall not be applicable during any time the director's approval of the corrective action plan has been suspended or revoked.
(b) The limitation of liability provided by this article shall not affect any right of indemnification which any person has or may acquire by contract against any other person who is otherwise liable for creating an environmental hazard; apply to persons who intentionally, wantonly, or willfully violate federal or state regulations in the cleanup process; or apply to any release occurring or continuing after the date of the certification of compliance unless any such continuing release is specifically addressed in the director's concurrence with the certification of compliance.
(c)
  (1) The limitation of liability provided by this article shall survive any subsequent change in the nature of a prospective purchaser's interest in the qualifying property and shall automatically inure to the benefit of heirs, assigns, successors in title, and designees of the person to whom such limitation of liability is granted and to any person acquiring any other property interest in the property for which the limitation of liability was granted; provided, however, that in no event shall the director's approval of a corrective action plan or concurrence with a certification of compliance operate to absolve from liability any party deemed to be a person who has contributed or is contributing to a release at the qualifying property.
  (2) Any voluntary transfer of the title to a property or any portion thereof for which a limitation of liability has been granted to any party that would be disqualified from obtaining a limitation of liability for such property under Code Section 12-8-206 shall terminate any limitation of liability applicable to the transferor under this article.
(d) For the purpose of determining liability for continuing or future releases of regulated substances upon or from any qualifying property for which the director has concurred with a certification of compliance pursuant to Code Section 12-8-207, the background or baseline concentration for any and all releases for which corrective action was performed or compliance certified or both shall be equivalent to the risk reduction standard for which compliance was certified in order to invoke the limitation of liability.
(e) The limitation of liability provided by this article shall have no effect on liability for releases of hazardous waste, hazardous constituents, or hazardous substances not addressed in the corrective action plan or the certification of compliance. Any such release shall constitute a new, separate, and distinct release, subject to the provisions of Part 2 of Article 3 of this chapter.
(f) Nothing in this article shall limit the authority of the director or the division to take action in response to any release or threat of release. Except as provided in this article, nothing shall limit the authority of the director or the division to seek recovery of costs from persons liable under Part 2 of Article 3 of this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 530,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 699,§ 2, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 12, eff. 4/14/2006.
