# § 12-8-107. Submission of voluntary investigation and remediation plan; enrollment; proof of assurance; termination; compliance status

(a) In order to enroll any qualifying property in the voluntary remediation program described in this part, an applicant shall submit to the director a voluntary investigation and remediation plan prepared by a registered professional engineer or a registered professional geologist who is registered with the State Board of Registration for Professional Engineers and Land Surveyors or the State Board of Registration for Geologists and who has experience in responsible charge of the investigation and remediation of such releases. The voluntary investigation and remediation plan shall be in such streamlined form as may be prescribed by the director; provided, however, that the plan shall, at minimum, enumerate and describe those actions planned to bring the qualifying property into compliance with the applicable cleanup standards, with one or more registered professionals to be retained by the applicant at its sole cost to oversee the investigation and remediation described in the plan; all in accordance with the provisions, purposes, standards, and policies of the voluntary remediation program. The voluntary investigation and remediation plan shall be considered an application for enrollment in the voluntary remediation program, and a nonrefundable application fee of $5,000.00 shall be submitted with the application. The director may, at any time, invoice the participant for any costs to the division in reviewing the application or subsequent document that exceed the initial application review fee, including reasonably detailed itemization and justification of the costs. Failure to remit payment within 60 days of receipt of such invoice may cause rejection of the participant from the voluntary remediation program. The director may not issue a written concurrence with a certification of compliance if there is an outstanding fee to be paid by the participant.
(b) Upon the director's approval of the voluntary investigation and remediation plan described in subsection (a) of this Code section, the qualifying property shall be deemed enrolled, and the applicant deemed a participant, in the voluntary remediation program. It shall be the responsibility of the participant to cause one or more registered professionals to oversee the implementation of said plan in accordance with the provisions, purposes, standards, and policies of this part. The registered professional shall submit at least semi-annual status reports to the director describing the implementation of the plan during the preceding period. Upon request of the applicant, the director shall have the discretion to approve annual or longer periods for submittal of status reports. Within 30 days of the director's approval of the voluntary investigation and remediation plan described in subsection (a) of this Code section, the director shall cause any relevant voluntary remediation property listed on the inventory under Part 2 of this article to be designated as undergoing corrective action pursuant to the voluntary remediation program.
(c) The director may issue an order requiring the participant to submit proof of financial assurance for continuing actions or controls upon issuance of the director's approval with the voluntary investigation and remediation plan.
(d) The participant may terminate at any time the enrollment of the property in the voluntary remediation program and the participant's requirements under this part. The director may terminate, at any time prior to approval of the compliance status report described in subsection (e) of this Code section, the enrollment of the property in the voluntary remediation program and the participant's requirements under this part if the director determines that either:
  (1) The participant has failed to implement the voluntary investigation and remediation plan in accordance with the provisions, purposes, standards, and policies of the voluntary remediation program; or
  (2) Such continued enrollment would result in a condition which poses an imminent or substantial danger to human health and the environment.
(e) Upon completion of corrective action under this Code section, the participant shall cause to be prepared a compliance status report confirming consistency of the corrective action with the provisions, purposes, standards, and policies of the voluntary remediation program and certifying the compliance of the relevant voluntary remediation property with the applicable cleanup standards in effect at the time.
(f) Upon receipt of the compliance status report described in subsection (d) of this Code section, a decision of concurrence with the report and certification shall be issued on evidence satisfactory to the director that it is consistent with the provisions, purposes, standards, and policies of the voluntary remediation program. The participant shall comply with the applicable public participation requirements for compliance status reports as promulgated pursuant to Part 2 of this article. Within 90 days of the director's written concurrence, the director shall cause the property to be removed from the inventory under Part 2 of this article.
(g) In addition to other provisions of this part:
  (1) The director shall remove the voluntary remediation property from the inventory if the participant demonstrates to the director at the time of enrollment, in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the board pursuant to Part 2 of this article, that a release exceeding a reportable quantity did not exist at the voluntary remediation property, unless the director issues a decision that such release poses an imminent or substantial danger to human health and the environment;
  (2) The participant shall not be required to perform corrective action or to certify compliance for groundwater if the voluntary remediation property was listed on the inventory as a result of a release to soil exceeding a reportable quantity for soil but was not listed on the inventory as a result of a release to groundwater exceeding a reportable quantity, and if the participant further demonstrates to the director at the time of enrollment that a release exceeding a reportable quantity for groundwater does not exist at the voluntary remediation property; and the groundwater protection requirements for soils shall be based on protection of the established point of exposure for groundwater as provided under this part. The director may require annual groundwater monitoring for up to five years for a voluntary remediation property removed from the inventory pursuant to this paragraph unless the director determines that further monitoring is necessary to protect human health and the environment; and
  (3) The limitations provided under subparagraph (c)(3)(B) of Code Section 12-2-2 shall not apply to the director's decisions or actions under this part.
(h) Any voluntary remediation property or site relying on controls, including, but not limited to, groundwater use restrictions for the purposes of certifying compliance with cleanup standards, shall execute a covenant restricting such use in conformance with Chapter 16 of Title 44, the "Uniform Environmental Covenants Act." The division shall maintain an inventory of such properties as provided for in that statute.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 488,§ 3, eff. 5/24/2010.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 144,§ 1, eff. 6/1/2009.
