# § 12-8-33. Recycling Market Development Council

(a) Effective July 1, 1990, there is created a 15 member Recycling Market Development Council to be appointed as follows:
  (1) Seven members appointed by the Governor representing the paper, glass, aluminum, plastic, tire, and ferrous and nonferrous metals industries and trade associations which are active in recycling;
  (2) One member who is an elected or appointed municipal official to be appointed by the Governor;
  (3) One member who is an elected or appointed member of a county governing authority to be appointed by the Governor;
  (4) One member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
  (5) One member appointed by the President of the Senate; and
  (6) One representative each from the Department of Administrative Services; the Department of Economic Development; the Department of Community Affairs; and the Department of Natural Resources.
(b) The council shall meet as necessary and shall determine what actions, if any, are needed to facilitate the development and expansion of markets for recovered materials in Georgia and shall prepare an annual report with recommendations to the Governor and General Assembly. The council shall not be required to distribute copies of the annual report to the members of the General Assembly but shall notify the members of the availability of the annual report in the manner which it deems to be most effective and efficient.
(c) The council shall function for a period of five years from its establishment, at which time it shall either be reauthorized or shall stand abolished.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 80,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 333,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 11, eff. 7/1/2004.
