# § 12-8-37.1. State grants authorized

(a) The state is authorized to make grants, as funds are available, to any county, municipality, or any combination of the same, or to any public authority, agency, commission, or institution, to assist such governmental or public body in the construction of solid waste handling systems which are consistent with local and regional solid waste management plans prepared in accordance with the requirements of this part.
(b) The director shall administer all funds granted by the state pursuant to this Code section.
(c) The corpus of the Solid Waste Trust Fund established in Code Section 12-8-27.1 may be used to make grants and loans to cities and counties, any combination of cities and counties, authorities, state agencies, or the Georgia Recycling Market Development Council for the cleanup of solid waste disposal facilities, including those used for the disposal of scrap tires; for the development and implementation of solid waste enforcement programs for the prevention and abatement of illegal dumping of solid waste, including without limitation the prevention and abatement of litter; for the funding of grants or loans, in accordance with procedures developed by the division; for the implementation of innovative technologies for the recycling and reuse of solid waste, including without limitation scrap tires; and for educational and other efforts to promote waste reduction, recycling, and recycling market development.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 290,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 390,§ 8, eff. 5/10/2005.
