# § 12-8-54. Board of directors

(a) Control and management of the authority shall be vested in a board of at least five directors who shall be residents of the county or municipal corporation which is a member of the authority. At least three of such directors shall be elected officials of the county or municipal corporation which is a member of the authority. The directors shall serve at the pleasure of the governing authority of the county or municipal corporation. Directors shall be appointed, and may be reappointed, for terms of four years. In the case of a regional solid waste management authority, each unit of local government participating in the authority shall appoint two members, with an additional member to be appointed by the directors themselves; provided, however, that if each participating municipal corporation which is within a participating county shall agree and, if authorized by an agreement among political subdivisions activating the authority, such participating county and participating municipal corporations may join in appointing their members to the authority and may agree to appoint as many as two members per participating municipal corporation within a county and, if the county is participating, two members for the county or as few as one member per county; provided, further, that in any case, an additional member shall be appointed by the directors of the authority themselves. The directors shall elect one of their members as chairman and another as vice-chairman and shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer or a secretary-treasurer, either of whom may but need not be a director. The directors shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. The directors may make bylaws and regulations for the governing of the authority and the operation of projects and may delegate to one or more of the officers, agents, and employees of the authority such powers and duties as may be deemed necessary and proper.
(b) Members of the board of directors of an authority formed pursuant to this Code section may agree that additional political subdivisions may become members of such authority subsequent to its formation upon an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of such board of directors under the terms imposed by agreement of two-thirds of the members of such board of directors.
(c) Any political subdivision which has become a member of such authority pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 12-8-53 and has determined that it shall not enter into a mutual agreement with the other political subdivisions which are members of such authority for the financial support and administrative function of such authority may be removed from such authority subsequent to its formation upon an affirmative vote of two-thirds of those members of the board of directors of such authority representing political subdivisions which have determined to enter into such an agreement. Upon such removal, the membership of such board of directors shall be reconstituted according to the terms of the agreement creating such authority as though the removed member or members had never executed such agreement. Any political subdivision removed from an authority pursuant to this subsection may be restored to membership in the authority pursuant to the terms of subsection (b) of this Code section.
