# § 12-8-104. Powers and duties of director

(a) The director shall have the power and duty:
  (1) To make determinations, in accordance with procedures and criteria enumerated in this part, as to whether a property qualifies and an applicant is eligible for the voluntary remediation program;
  (2) To approve, in accordance with procedures and criteria enumerated in this part and rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this part, voluntary remediation plans;
  (3) To approve, in accordance with procedures and criteria enumerated in this part and rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this part, compliance status reports;
  (4) To concur with certifications of compliance;
  (5) To collect, assess, receive, administer, and disperse funds obtained from application and reimbursement fees for the purpose of carrying out the duties and powers under this part;
  (6) To enter into such agreements and contracts as required to accomplish the purposes of this part; and
  (7) To grant waivers of all or any portion of the fees provided by this part for any small business or for any county, municipality, or other political subdivision of this state.
(b) The powers and duties described in subsection (a) of this Code section may be exercised and performed by the director through such duly authorized agents and employees as the director deems necessary and proper.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 12, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 488,§ 1, eff. 5/24/2010.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 144,§ 1, eff. 6/1/2009.
