# § 12-8-95.1. Hazardous waste management fees and hazardous substance reporting fees

(a) The division is authorized and directed to charge and collect the fees for hazardous waste management activities and hazardous substance reporting fees as provided in this subsection. As used in this Code section, the term "hazardous waste" shall not include any material excluded by 40 C.F.R. Part 261 of the Code of Federal Regulations. Every large quantity generator and every small quantity generator shall pay the greater of $115.00 per calendar year or the total of the hazardous waste management fees, and every person who is required to report pursuant to Section 313 of Title III of the federal Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 shall pay the annual hazardous substance reporting fees, imposed as follows:
  (1) Every large quantity generator of hazardous waste shall pay an annual fee of $23.00 per ton for hazardous waste shipped off site for disposal or incineration, $18.40 per ton for hazardous waste shipped off site for treatment or storage, and $10.35 per ton for hazardous waste shipped off site for treatment by being burned for energy recovery in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to Part 1 of this article; provided, however, that no large quantity generator shall be liable for off-site hazardous waste management fees exceeding $75,000.00 in any calendar year. In no event shall any person be liable for an off-site hazardous waste management fee on any hazardous waste for which an off-site hazardous waste management fee has previously been paid;
  (2) Every large quantity generator of hazardous waste shall pay an annual fee of $11.50 per ton for hazardous waste disposed of or incinerated on site, $4.60 per ton for hazardous waste treated or stored on site, and $2.90 per ton for hazardous waste treated on site by being burned for energy recovery in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to Part 1 of this article; provided, however, that no large quantity generator shall be liable for on-site hazardous waste management fees for disposal or incineration, treatment or storage, or treatment by burning for energy recovery in any calendar year exceeding the following amounts and according to the following schedule:
    (A) Twenty-five thousand dollars for such payments due on July 1, 1993, and on July 1, 1994;
    (B) Fifty thousand dollars for such payments, excluding payments for the on-site treatment of waste water which is a hazardous waste, due on July 1, 1995, and on July 1, 1996;
    (C) Seventy-five thousand dollars for such payments, excluding payments for the on-site treatment of waste water which is a hazardous waste, due on and after July 1, 1997;
    (D) One thousand five hundred dollars for waste water which is a hazardous waste which is treated on site for payments due on July 1, 1995;
    (E) Three thousand dollars for waste water which is a hazardous waste treated on site for payments due on July 1, 1996; and
    (F) Seven thousand five hundred dollars for waste water which is a hazardous waste treated on site for payments due on and after July 1, 1997. For the purposes of this paragraph, a generator who generates waste water which is a hazardous waste shall not be required to count such hazardous waste in determining its status as a large quantity generator, a small quantity generator, or a conditionally exempt small quantity generator. For the purposes of this paragraph, dilution of waste water that is a hazardous waste shall be considered treatment subject to the fees established by this paragraph. A large quantity generator which pays fees for the off-site management of hazardous waste under paragraph (1) of this subsection for a hazardous waste which was previously managed on site shall not pay the applicable on-site management fee for that hazardous waste;
  (3) Every person who receives hazardous waste generated outside this state shall pay an annual fee of $23.00 per ton for hazardous waste disposed of or incinerated, $18.40 per ton for hazardous waste treated or stored, and $10.35 per ton for hazardous waste treated by being burned for energy recovery in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to Part 1 of this article; provided, however, that no person shall be liable for importation fees exceeding $75,000.00 per out-of-state generator in any calendar year. In no case shall any person who receives hazardous waste from any person outside this state and who pays an importation fee on such waste pursuant to this paragraph be liable for the off-site hazardous waste management fees required by paragraph (1) of this subsection. Persons who receive hazardous waste generated outside this state are not required to pay the fees required by this paragraph for those wastes generated by conditionally exempt small quantity generators which are located outside this state. For the purposes of this paragraph, a "conditionally exempt small quantity generator" means a generator who generates 220 pounds or less of hazardous waste in one month, as provided by rules promulgated by the board in accordance with this article; and
  (4) Each person who is required to report pursuant to Section 313 of Title III of the federal Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 shall pay to the division an annual hazardous substance reporting fee as follows:
    (A) A facility with no reported release shall pay no fee;
    (B) A facility with a reported release of less than 1,000 pounds during the calendar year shall pay a fee of $575.00 for that calendar year;
    (C) A facility with a reported release equal to or greater than 1,000 pounds but less than 10,000 pounds during the calendar year shall pay a fee of $1,150.00 for that calendar year; and
    (D) A facility with a reported release equal or greater than 10,000 pounds during the calendar year shall pay a fee of $1,725.00 for that calendar year.
(b) All hazardous waste and hazardous substance fees required by subsection (a) of this Code section shall be paid to the division for transfer into the state treasury for appropriation thereafter to the Hazardous Waste Trust Fund in accordance with subsection (a.1) of Code Section 12-8-95. The division shall collect such fees until the unencumbered principal balance of such trust fund equals or exceeds $25 million, at which time no hazardous waste or hazardous substance fees shall be levied until the balance in that fund is less than or equal to an unencumbered balance of $12.5 million, in which case the levy and collection of hazardous waste fees shall resume at the beginning of the next calendar year following the year in which such unencumbered balance occurs. The director shall provide written notice to all large quantity generators and hazardous waste treatment, storage, and disposal facilities and all persons who are required to report pursuant to Section 313 of Title III of the federal Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 at such time as the director receives notice that the unencumbered principal balance of the fund equals or exceeds $25 million or is equal to or less than $12.5 million.
(c) All hazardous waste fees levied under this Code section shall be based on the amounts of hazardous waste managed or imported within the preceding calendar year. Such fees for the period July 1, 1992, through December 31, 1992, shall be paid to the division not later than July 1, 1993. All subsequent hazardous waste fees shall be paid not later than the first day of July of each year for the preceding calendar year.
(d) All hazardous substance fees levied under this Code section shall be based on the hazardous substances reported for the preceding calendar year. All hazardous substance fees shall be paid not later than the first day of July of each year for the preceding calendar year.
(e) Persons who make payments of fees levied by this Code section later than 30 days after the due date specified in subsection (c) of this Code section shall pay a penalty of 15 percent of the balance due and shall pay interest on the unpaid balance at the rate imposed by law for delinquent taxes due to the state. Delinquent fees may be collected in a civil action instituted in the name of the director. In addition to the 15 percent penalty and the interest that may be collected along with the delinquent fees as provided in this subsection, the director shall be entitled to collect all costs, including administrative costs, and legal expenses incurred by the state in connection with its collection efforts.
(f) Hazardous waste which is generated by any of the following means is exempted from the fees required by this Code section:
  (1) Corrective action required by an order, permit, or approved closure plan issued pursuant to Part 1 of this article;
  (2) Voluntary corrective action required by any person in accordance with applicable laws and regulations; and
  (3) Response actions required under the federal Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, as amended.
(g) The following persons shall not be required to pay the hazardous substance reporting fees required by this Code section:
  (1) Persons who report pursuant to Section 313 of Title III of the federal Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 only for substances not designated as regulated substances pursuant to rules and regulations of the board; and
  (2) Persons who report pursuant to Section 313 of Title III of the federal Superfund Amendments and Reauthorization Act of 1986 only for petroleum fuels, lubricants, and hydraulic fluids and components thereof that are designated as regulated substances pursuant to rules and regulations of the board.
(h) Unless fee requirements established in this Code section are reimposed by the General Assembly, no such fees shall be levied after July 1, 2027.
(i) In accordance with rules promulgated by the board pursuant to paragraph (6) of subsection (b) of Code Section 12-8-93, the director is authorized to grant a waiver of a portion of the hazardous waste management fees and hazardous substance reporting fees provided by subsection (a) of this Code section not to exceed a 25 percent reduction per year for a maximum of three years for any company as an incentive upon the recommendation of the director of the Pollution Prevention Assistance Division made in conjunction with programs and activities designed to encourage industries in the state to reduce their generation of wastes, including but not limited to programs established to recognize and reward pollution performance and environmental improvement.
(j) Beginning July 1, 2003, and continuing annually thereafter, federal agencies shall pay the hazardous waste management fees required by this Code section provided an amount not less than the sum of all fees collected from federal agencies is appropriated annually to the department and used in accordance with subsection (b) of Code Section 12-8-91 and used for the purposes set forth in paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of Code Section 12-8-95.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 272,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 749,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 55,§ 3, eff. 6/30/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 340,§ 2, eff. 6/30/2018.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 270,§ 4, eff. 5/7/2013.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 853, § 4, eff. 7/1/2003
