# § 12-8-34. Labeling rigid plastic containers or bottles

(a) On and after January 1, 1991, it shall be unlawful to manufacture for use in Georgia or offer for sale in Georgia any rigid plastic container or rigid plastic bottle which is not labeled in accordance with subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) On and after January 1, 1991, any rigid plastic container or rigid plastic bottle manufactured for use in Georgia or offered for sale in Georgia shall be labeled with a code molded into the plastic product which indicates the resin used to produce the bottle or container. Such coding shall conform with the following:
  (1) Rigid plastic containers or rigid plastic bottles with basecups or other components of the secondary material may, if the materials are compatible in recycling systems, carry the code of the basic material (even when the basic code is applied to the basecup of the secondary material); otherwise "7-other" is appropriate.
  (2) The label code shall consist of a number placed inside a triangle and letters placed below the triangle as required by paragraph (3) of this subsection. The triangle shall be equilateral, formed by three arrows with the apex of each point of the triangle at the midpoint of each arrow, rounded with a short radius. The pointer (arrowhead) of each arrow shall be at the midpoint of each side of the triangle with a short gap separating the pointer from the base of the adjacent arrow. The triangle, formed by the three arrows curved at their midpoints, shall depict a clockwise path around the code number;
  (3) The numbers and letters used on labels described in this Code section and their interpretations shall be as follows: "1-PETE" (polyethylene terephthalate)"2-HDPE" (high-density polyethylene)"3-V" (vinyl)"4-LDPE" (low-density polyethylene)"5-PP" (polypropylene)"6-PS" (polystyrene)"7-OTHER" (all other resins and layered multimaterial)

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 12, eff. 2/12/2001.
