# § 21-2-213. County deputy registrars; clerical help; appointment of county officer or employee as chief deputy registrar

(a) The board of registrars in each county may appoint deputy registrars to aid them in the discharge of their duties. The number of deputy registrars appointed to serve shall be determined by the board of registrars. Such deputy registrars shall serve without compensation unless the governing authority of the county, by resolution, authorizes compensation. In appointing deputy registrars, the registrars shall select persons who are reasonably representative of a cross section of significantly identifiable groups of the communities or areas where they are to serve.
(b) The board of registrars in each county may hire clerical help to assist them in their duties if the compensation required therefor has been first approved by the governing authority of the county. Such additional clerks shall be eligible to be appointed as deputy registrars for the purpose of registering voters and performing other duties as may be required, but it shall not be necessary for such clerks to be electors of the county in which employed.
(c) In every county wherein the registrars do not maintain an office which is open and staffed during regular business hours, the registrars shall designate and appoint as chief deputy registrar a full-time county officer or employee for the purpose of registering eligible electors and performing other duties as may be required by the board of registrars. The governing authority of the county shall provide for the compensation of the chief deputy registrar in an amount not less than $349.60 per month. The name, business address, telephone number, and any other pertinent information relative to the chief deputy registrar shall be forwarded by the registrars to the Secretary of State's office, where such information shall be maintained on file.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 310,§ 8, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 649,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 291, § 16, eff. 1/1/2002.
