# § 21-2-379.10. Procedure for electors

(a) A duly qualified elector shall cast his or her vote on a direct recording electronic (DRE) unit by touching the screen or pressing the appropriate button on the unit for the candidate or issue of such elector's choice. After having the opportunity to vote in all races and upon all questions in which the elector is eligible to vote, the unit shall display a summary of the choices which the elector has made. At that time, the elector shall also be notified of any races or questions in which the elector did not make a selection and all other choices of the elector shall be displayed for the elector's review. The elector shall have the opportunity to change any choices which the elector made in voting the ballot and be allowed to vote in those races and on those questions which the elector did not previously make a selection or cast a vote, and the elector will again be presented with a summary display of his or her choices.
(b) After the summary screen is displayed and the elector desires to make no further changes to his or her votes, the elector shall be notified that he or she is about to cast the ballot. The elector shall then press the appropriate button on the unit or location on the screen to actually cast his or her ballot. After pressing the appropriate button on the unit or location on the screen to cast the ballot, the elector's vote shall be final and shall not be subsequently altered.
(c) If an elector leaves the voting booth without having pressed the appropriate button on the unit or location on the screen to finally cast his or her ballot and cannot be located to return to the booth to complete the voting process, then a poll worker shall take the steps necessary to void the ballot that was not completed by the elector and an appropriate record shall be made of such event.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 10, § 1, eff. 5/14/2003.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 769, § 1-4, eff. 5/13/2002.
