# § 21-2-502. Issuance of certificates of election and commission; Governor's proclamation as to constitutional amendments

(a)Governor and other constitutional officers. Upon completing the tabulation of any election for Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, Attorney General, State School Superintendent, Commissioner of Insurance, Commissioner of Agriculture, or Commissioner of Labor, the Secretary of State shall lay the same before the Governor upon his or her oath of office as Governor; and the Governor, upon the other constitutional officers taking their oaths of office, shall issue a commission under the great seal of the State of Georgia signed by the Governor and countersigned by the Secretary of State, to each such person. The Secretary of State shall issue the commission to the person elected Governor.
(b)United States senators; representatives in Congress; members of the General Assembly.
  (1) Upon completing the tabulation of any election for United States senator or representative in Congress, the Secretary of State shall lay the same before the Governor, who shall immediately issue certificates of election and commissions under the seal of the state, duly signed by the Governor and attested by the Secretary of State and deliver the same to the candidates receiving the required number of votes to be elected to the respective offices.
  (2) The Secretary of State shall issue certificates of election to the persons elected members of the Senate and the House of Representatives of the General Assembly and, between the hours of 12:00 Noon and 1:00 P.M. on the second Monday in January of each odd-numbered year, present before the Senate and the House of Representatives the several returns of the elections of members of the respective houses. In case of a special election the Secretary of State shall issue a certificate of election to each person so elected, and the Secretary of State shall present the returns of such election to the proper house as soon as received and tabulated by the Secretary of State. Immediately upon their taking the oath of office, each member of the Senate and the House of Representatives shall be issued a commission under the great seal of the State of Georgia, signed by the Secretary of State.
(c)Justices of the Supreme Court, Judges of the Court of Appeals, Commissioners of the Georgia Public Service Commission, judges of the superior court, judges of the juvenile court, and district attorneys. Upon completion of the tabulation the Secretary of State shall certify the result of each election of Justices of the Supreme Court, of Judges of the Court of Appeals, of Commissioners of the Georgia Public Service Commission, of judges of the superior court, of judges of the juvenile court where elected, and of district attorneys to the Governor and shall issue a certificate of election to each person so elected. The Governor shall, upon each such person taking the oath of office, immediately issue a commission under the great seal of the State of Georgia, signed by the Governor and countersigned by the Secretary of State, to each such person.
(d)County officers. The superintendent in each county shall, as soon as the returns have been properly certified, issue certificates of election to the successful candidates for all county officers to be filled by the votes of electors of such county. Immediately upon taking the oath of office, each such county officer shall be issued a commission under the seal of the executive department, signed by the Governor and countersigned by one of his or her secretaries.
(e)Presidential electors. The Secretary of State, on receiving and computing the returns of presidential electors, shall lay them before the Governor, who shall enumerate and ascertain the number of votes for each person so voted for and shall cause a certificate of election to be delivered to each person so chosen.
(f)Constitutional amendments. Upon receiving the certified results of elections on all constitutional amendments from the Secretary of State, the Governor shall issue his or her proclamation declaring the results of the vote of each amendment.
