# § 21-2-379.8. Public exhibition of voting system and sample ballot

(a) The superintendent or his or her designee shall, upon request, make available for demonstration direct recording electronic (DRE) units. The Secretary of State shall advise the superintendents on recommended methods of demonstrating such units so as to properly educate electors in the use thereof, and, at least during the initial year in which DRE equipment is used in a county or municipality, all superintendents shall offer a series of demonstrations and organized voter education initiatives to equip electors for using such equipment in voting.
(b) At least 45 days before a general primary or election or during the ten days before a special primary or election and at least 21 days before a municipal general primary or election or during the ten days before a municipal special primary or election, the superintendent shall place on public exhibition, in such public places and at such times as the superintendent shall deem most suitable for the information and instruction of the electors, a sample ballot to be used in such election. The sample ballot shall show the offices and questions to be voted upon, the names and arrangements of the political parties and bodies, and the names and arrangements of the candidates to be voted for. Such sample ballots shall be under the charge and care of a person who is, in the opinion of the superintendent, competent and qualified as an instructor concerning such ballots and voting procedures.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 632,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2010.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 769, §§ 1-4, eff. 5/13/2002.
