# § 21-2-587. Frauds by poll officers

(1) Makes a false return of the votes cast at any primary or election;
(2) Deposits fraudulent ballots in the ballot box or certifies as correct a false return of ballots;
(3) Registers fraudulent votes upon any voting machine or certifies as correct a return of fraudulent votes cast upon any voting machine;
(4) Makes any false entries in the electors list;
(5) Destroys or alters any ballot, voter's certificate, or electors list;
(6) Tampers with any voting machine, direct recording electronic (DRE) equipment, electronic ballot marker, or tabulating machine or device;
(7) Prepares or files any false voter's certificate not prepared by or for an elector actually voting at such primary or election; or
(8) Fails to return to the officials prescribed by this chapter, following any primary or election, any keys of a voting machine; ballot box; general or duplicate return sheet; tally paper; oaths of poll officers; affidavits of electors and others; record of assisted voters; numbered list of voters; electors list; voter's certificate; spoiled and canceled ballots; ballots deposited, written, or affixed in or upon a voting machine; DRE, electronic ballot marker, or tabulating machine memory cards; or any certificate or any other paper or record required to be returned under this chapter shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years or to pay a fine not to exceed $100,000.00, or both.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 24,§ 49, eff. 4/2/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 632,§ 33, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 259,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 65, eff. 7/1/2003.
