# § 21-2-384. Preparation and delivery of supplies; mailing of ballots; oath of absentee electors and persons assisting absentee electors; master list of ballots sent; challenges; special absentee run-off ballots; electronic transmission of ballots

(a)
  (1) The superintendent shall, in consultation with the board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk, prepare, obtain, and deliver before the date specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection an adequate supply of official absentee ballots to the board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk for use in the primary or election or as soon as possible prior to a runoff. Envelopes and other supplies as required by this article may be ordered by the superintendent, the board of registrars, or the absentee ballot clerk for use in the primary or election.
  (2) The board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk shall mail or issue official absentee ballots to all eligible applicants not more than 29 days but not less than 25 days prior to any presidential preference primary, general primary other than a municipal general primary, general election other than a municipal general election, or special primary or special election in which there is a candidate for a federal office on the ballot; 22 days prior to any municipal general primary or municipal general election; and as soon as possible prior to any runoff. In the case of all other special primaries or special elections, the board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk shall mail or issue official absentee ballots to all eligible applicants within three days after the receipt of such ballots and supplies, but no earlier than 22 days prior to the election; provided, however, that official absentee ballots shall be issued to any elector of the jurisdiction who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizen Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, beginning 49 days prior to a federal primary or election and not later than 45 days prior to a federal primary or election. As additional applicants who submitted timely applications for an absentee ballot are determined to be eligible, the board or clerk shall mail or issue official absentee ballots to such additional applicants immediately upon determining their eligibility. For all timely received applications for absentee ballots, the board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk shall mail or issue absentee ballots, provisional absentee ballots, and notices of rejection as soon as possible upon determining their eligibility within the time periods set forth in this subsection. During the period for advance voting set forth in Code Section 21-2-385, the board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk shall make such determinations and mail or issue absentee ballots, provisional absentee ballots, and notices of rejection of application within three days after receiving a timely application for an absentee ballot. The board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk shall, within the time periods specified in this subsection, electronically transmit official absentee ballots to all electors who have requested to receive their official absentee ballot electronically and are entitled to vote such absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended.
  (3) The date a ballot is voted in the registrar's or absentee ballot clerk's office or the date a ballot is mailed or issued to an elector and the date it is returned shall be entered on the application record therefor.
  (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an elector confined in a hospital may make application for an absentee ballot on the day of a primary or election or during a ten-day period immediately preceding the day of such primary or election. Such application shall immediately be processed and, if such applicant is determined to be eligible, the board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk may deliver the absentee ballot to such elector.
  (5) In the event an absentee ballot which has been mailed by the board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk is not received by the applicant, the applicant may notify the board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk and sign an affidavit stating that the absentee ballot has not been received. The board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk shall then issue a second absentee ballot to the applicant and cancel the original ballot issued. The affidavit shall be attached to the original application. A second application for an absentee ballot shall not be required.
(b) Except for ballots voted within the confines of the registrar's or absentee ballot clerk's office, in addition to the mailing envelope addressed to the elector, the superintendent, board of registrars, or absentee ballot clerk shall provide two envelopes for each official absentee ballot, of such size and shape as shall be determined by the Secretary of State, in order to permit the placing of one within the other and both within the mailing envelope. On the smaller of the two envelopes to be enclosed in the mailing envelope shall be printed the words "Official Absentee Ballot" and nothing else. The larger of the two envelopes to be enclosed within the mailing envelope shall contain the form of oath of the elector and the oath for persons assisting electors, as provided for in subsection (c) of this Code section, and the penalties provided for in Code Sections 21-2-568, 21-2-573, 21-2-579, and 21-2-599 for violations of oaths; a place for the elector to print his or her name; a signature line; a space for the elector to print the number of his or her Georgia driver's license or identification card issued pursuant to Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Title 40; a space for the elector to mark to affirm that he or she does not have a Georgia driver's license or identification card issued pursuant to Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Title 40; a space for the elector to print his or her date of birth; and a space for the elector to print the last four digits of his or her social security number, if the elector does not have a Georgia driver's license or state identification card issued pursuant to Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Title 40. The envelope shall be designed so that the number of the elector's Georgia driver's license or identification card issued pursuant to Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Title 40, the last four digits of the elector's social security number, and the elector's date of birth shall be hidden from view when the envelope is correctly sealed. Any person other than the elector who requested the ballot, an authorized person who is assisting the elector entitled to assistance in voting pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section, an absentee ballot clerk, registrar, or law enforcement officer in the course of an investigation who knowingly unseals a sealed absentee ballot envelope shall be guilty of a felony. On the face of such envelope shall be printed the name and address of the board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk. The larger of the two envelopes shall also display the elector's name and voter registration number. The mailing envelope addressed to the elector shall contain the two envelopes, the official absentee ballot, the uniform instructions for the manner of preparing and returning the ballot, in form and substance as provided by the Secretary of State, provisional absentee ballot information, if necessary, and a notice in the form provided by the Secretary of State of all withdrawn, deceased, and disqualified candidates and any substitute candidates pursuant to Code Sections 21-2-134 and 21-2-155 and nothing else. The uniform instructions shall include information specific to the voting system used for absentee voting concerning the effect of overvoting or voting for more candidates than one is authorized to vote for a particular office and information concerning how the elector may correct errors in voting the ballot before it is cast including information on how to obtain a replacement ballot if the elector is unable to change the ballot or correct the error. The uniform instructions shall prominently include specific instructions stating that the elector shall mark his or her ballot in private and sign the oath by writing his or her usual signature with a pen and ink under penalty of false swearing that the elector has not allowed any person to observe the marking of his or her ballot other than an authorized person lawfully assisting the elector if the elector is entitled to assistance, the elector's child under 18 years of age, or any child under 12 years of age and that the elector will not permit any unauthorized person to deliver or return the voted ballot to the board of registrars. The uniform instructions shall include a list of authorized persons who may deliver or return the voted ballot to the board of registrars on behalf of the elector as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 21-2-385. The uniform instructions shall include the contact information of the Secretary of State which may be used by the elector to report any unauthorized person requesting to observe the elector voting his or her ballot or the elector's voted ballot or any unauthorized person offering to deliver or return the voted ballot to the board of registrars.
(c)
  (1) The oaths referred to in subsection (b) of this Code section shall be in substantially the following form: I, the undersigned, do swear (or affirm) under penalty of false swearing that I am a citizen of the United States and of the State of Georgia; that I possess the qualifications of an elector required by the laws of the State of Georgia; that I am entitled to vote in the precinct containing my residence in the primary or election in which this ballot is to be cast; that I am eligible to vote by absentee ballot; that I have not marked or mailed any other absentee ballot, nor will I mark or mail another absentee ballot for voting in such primary or election; nor shall I vote therein in person; and that I have read and understand the instructions accompanying this ballot; that I have carefully complied with such instructions in completing this ballot; that I have marked and sealed this ballot in private and have not allowed any unauthorized person to observe the voting of this ballot or how this ballot was voted except those authorized under state and federal law; and that I will not give or transfer this ballot to any person not authorized by law to deliver or return absentee ballots. I understand that the offer or acceptance of money or any other object of value to vote for any particular candidate, list of candidates, issue, or list of issues included in this election constitutes an act of voter fraud and is a felony under Georgia law.__________________Signature or Mark of Elector__________________Printed Name of ElectorOath of Person Assisting Elector (if any):I, the undersigned, do swear (or affirm) that I assisted the above-named elector in marking such elector's absentee ballot as such elector personally communicated such elector's preference to me; and that such elector is entitled to receive assistance in voting under provisions of subsection (a) of Code Section 21-2-409.This, the __________________ day of __________________, __________________.__________________Signature of Person Assisting Elector__________________Printed Name of Person Assisting ElectorReason for assistance (Check appropriate square):[] Elector is unable to read the English language.[] Elector requires assistance due to physical disability.The forms upon which such oaths are printed shall contain the following information:Georgia law provides that any person who knowingly falsifies information so as to vote illegally by absentee ballot or who illegally gives or receives assistance in voting, as specified in Code Section 21-2-568 or 21-2-573, shall be guilty of a felony.
  (2) In the case of absent uniformed services or overseas voters, if the presidential designee under Section 705(b) of the federal Help America Vote Act promulgates a standard oath for use by such voters, the Secretary of State shall be required to use such oath on absentee ballot materials for such voters and such oath shall be accepted in lieu of the oath set forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(d) Each board of registrars or absentee ballot clerk shall maintain for public inspection a master list, arranged by precincts, setting forth the name and residence of every elector to whom an official absentee ballot has been sent. Absentee electors whose names appear on the master list may be challenged by any elector prior to 5:00 P.M. on the day before absentee ballots are to begin being scanned and tabulated.
(e)
  (1) The election superintendent shall prepare special absentee run-off ballots for general primaries and general elections for use by qualified electors who are entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq.
  (2) Such special absentee run-off ballots for the general primary shall list the titles of all offices being contested at the general primary and the candidates qualifying for such general primary for each office and shall permit the elector to vote in the general primary runoff by indicating his or her order of preference for each candidate for each office. A separate ballot shall be prepared for each political party, but a qualified elector under this subsection shall be mailed only the ballot of the political party in whose primary such elector requests to vote. The Secretary of State shall prepare instructions for use with such special absentee run-off ballots, including instructions for voting by mail using an electronically transmitted ballot. Such ballot shall be returned by the elector in the same manner as other absentee ballots by such electors who are entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq.
  (3) Such special absentee run-off ballots for the general election shall list the titles of all offices being contested at the general election and the candidates qualifying for such general election for each office and shall permit the elector to vote in the general election runoff by indicating his or her order of preference for each candidate for each office.
  (4) To indicate order of preference for each candidate for each office to be voted on, an elector shall put the numeral "1" next to the name of the candidate who is the elector's first choice for such office, the numeral "2" for the elector's second choice, and so forth, in consecutive numerical order, such that a numeral indicating the elector's preference is written by the elector next to each candidate's name on the ballot. An elector shall not be required to indicate preference for more than one candidate for an office if the elector so chooses.
  (5) A special absentee run-off ballot shall be enclosed with each general primary absentee ballot sent to an elector who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., along with instructions on how to cast the special absentee run-off ballot and the two envelopes to be used in returning such ballot as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, provided that the envelopes bear the notation of "Official Overseas/Military General Primary Run-off Ballot." An elector shall be sent only the ballot containing the candidates of the political party in whose primary such elector desires to vote.
  (6) A special absentee run-off ballot shall be enclosed with each general election absentee ballot sent to an elector entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., along with instructions on how to cast the special absentee run-off ballot and the two envelopes to be used in returning such ballot as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, provided that the envelopes bear the notation of "Official Overseas/Military General Election Run-off Ballot." The State Election Board shall by rule or regulation establish procedures for the transmission of blank absentee ballots by mail and by electronic transmission for all electors who are entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, and by which such electors may designate whether the elector prefers the transmission of such ballots by mail or electronically, for use in county, state, and federal primaries, elections, and runoffs in this state and, if the Secretary of State finds it to be feasible, for use in municipal primaries, elections, and runoffs. If no preference is stated, the ballot shall be transmitted by mail. The State Election Board shall by rule or regulation establish procedures to ensure to the extent practicable that the procedures for transmitting such ballots shall protect the security and integrity of such ballots and shall ensure that the privacy of the identity and other personal data of such electors who are entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, to whom a blank absentee ballot is transmitted under this Code section is protected throughout the process of such transmission.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 27, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 24,§ 30, eff. 4/2/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 250,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 26, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 241,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 240,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 502,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 502,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 453,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 259,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 874,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 53, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 38, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 164.
