# § 21-2-367. Installation of systems; number of systems; good working order

(a) When the use of optical scanning voting systems has been authorized in the manner prescribed in this part, such optical scanning voting systems shall be installed, either simultaneously or gradually, within the county or municipality.
(b)
  (1) In each precinct in which optical scanning voting systems are used in a state-wide general election, except as provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the county election superintendent shall provide at least one voting booth or enclosure for each 250 electors therein, or fraction thereof.
  (2) For any primary, election, or runoff, the county or municipal election superintendent may provide a greater or lesser number of voting booths or enclosures if, after a thorough consideration of the type of election, expected turnout, the number of electors who have already voted by advance voting or absentee ballot, and other relevant factors that inform the appropriate amount of equipment needed, such superintendent determines that a different amount of equipment is needed or sufficient. Such determination shall be subject to the provisions of Code Section 21-2-263.
(c) Reserved.
(d) The county or municipal governing authority, as appropriate, shall provide optical scanning voting systems in good working order and of sufficient capacity to accommodate the names of a reasonable number of candidates for all party offices and nominations and public offices which, under the provisions of existing laws and party rules, are likely to be voted for at any future primary or election.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 599,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 22, eff. 3/25/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 24,§ 20, eff. 4/2/2019.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 46, eff. 7/1/2005.
