# § 21-2-100. Training of local election officials

(a) The election superintendent and at least one registrar of the county or, in counties with boards of election or combined boards of election and registration, at least one member of the board or a designee of the board shall attend a minimum of 12 hours' training annually as may be selected by the Secretary of State. The election superintendent and at least one registrar of each municipality shall attend a minimum of 12 hours' training biennially as may be selected by the Secretary of State.
(b) The basis for the minimum requirement of training shall be two calendar years.
(c) A waiver of the requirement of minimum training, either in whole or in part, may be granted by the Secretary of State, in the discretion of the Secretary of State, upon the presentation of evidence by the election superintendent, registrar, or board that the individual was unable to complete such training due to medical disability, providential cause, or other reason deemed sufficient by the Secretary of State.
(d) The cost of the training shall be borne by the governing authority of each county from county funds and by the municipal governing authority from municipal funds.
(e) A superintendent or registrar and the county or municipal governing authority which employs the superintendent or registrar may be fined by the State Election Board for failure to attend the training required in this Code section.
(f) The minimum training required under this Code section shall not apply to deputy registrars.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 165, § 5, eff. 7/1/2001.
