# § 21-2-154. Certification of political party candidates

(a) At or before 12:00 Noon on the third day after the deadline for qualifying, the county executive committee of each political party shall certify to the superintendent and the state executive committee of each political party shall certify to the Secretary of State, on forms prescribed by the Secretary of State, all those candidates who have qualified with such committee for the succeeding primary election. Such certification shall be accompanied by the appropriate amount of the qualifying fees paid by such candidates as prescribed in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-131 and a copy of the declaration of candidacy and affidavit of each such candidate. Such certification shall not be accepted if the political party has not registered with the Secretary of State as required in Article 3 of this chapter. When the election superintendent qualifies candidates on behalf of a political party pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-153, the election superintendent shall certify at or before 12:00 Noon on the third day after the deadline for qualifying, on forms provided by the Secretary of State, all those candidates of such political party who qualified with the election superintendent.
(b) Any candidate whose name does not appear on the list of candidates posted by a county executive committee or the state executive committee pursuant to subsection (d) of Code Section 21-2-153 shall not be certified under this Code section; provided, however, that the name of a candidate who has properly qualified whose name has been left off of the list of candidates through inadvertence or clerical error may be placed upon such list upon the filing of an affidavit by the county executive committee or the state executive committee, as appropriate, attesting to such inadvertence or error. The county executive committee of each political party shall attach to its certification a copy of the affidavits required by paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 15-6-50, paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 15-9-2, subparagraph (c)(2)(A) of Code Section 15-16-1, paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 45-16-1, and paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 48-5-210.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 165, § 11, eff. 7/1/2001.
