# § 21-2-265. Selection of polling places; change; notice; objection; facilities for disabled voters; selection of polling places outside precinct; restriction on changes close to election date

(a) The superintendent of a county or the governing authority of a municipality shall select and fix the polling place within each precinct and may, either on his, her, or its own motion or on petition of ten electors of a precinct, change the polling place within any precinct. Except in case of an emergency or unavoidable event occurring within ten days of a primary or election, which emergency or event renders any polling place unavailable for use at such primary or election, the superintendent of a county or the governing authority of a municipality shall not change any polling place until notice of the proposed change shall have been published for once a week for two consecutive weeks in the legal organ for the county or municipality in which the polling place is located. Additionally, during the seven days before and on the day of the first election following such change, a notice of such change shall be posted on the previous polling place and at three other places in the immediate vicinity thereof. Each notice posted shall state the location to which the polling place has been moved and shall direct electors to the new location. At least one notice at the previous polling place shall be a minimum of four feet by four feet in size. The occupant or owner of the previous polling place, or his or her agent, shall be notified in writing of such change at the time notice is published in the legal organ.
(b) Except in case of an emergency or unavoidable event occurring within ten days of a primary or election, which emergency or event renders any polling place unavailable for use, if a petition is presented to the superintendent of a county or the governing authority of a municipality on or before the day set for hearing of the petition for change of a polling place, signed by 20 percent of the electors of the precinct objecting to the proposed change, such change shall not be ordered.
(c) In primaries, the superintendent of a county or the governing authority of a municipality in selecting and fixing the polling place in each precinct shall select a polling place which will provide adequate space for all parties conducting their primaries therein.
(d) The superintendent of a county or the governing authority of a municipality, in selecting and fixing a polling place in each precinct, shall select, if practicable, a polling place with suitable and appropriate access for disabled electors. If no such practicable locations exist within the precinct, the superintendent of a county or the governing authority of a municipality may effect temporary modifications to such existing locations as will, in his or her or its judgment, provide more convenient and appropriate access to the polling place by the disabled elector. No polling place shall be selected or used under any circumstances which does not have suitable and appropriate access for persons with disabilities for the purpose of voting; and any person, whether or not personally aggrieved, may bring an action for mandamus to require that all polling places in the county or municipality have suitable and appropriate access for persons with disabilities for the purpose of voting.
(e) On and after January 1, 2018, the superintendent may establish the polling place for a precinct outside the boundaries of the precinct if there is no suitable facility within the precinct which could be used as a polling place and if, by so doing, such polling place would better serve the needs of the voters; provided, however, that no polling place shall be established outside of the boundaries of the precinct within 90 days of a primary or election, and the superintendent shall submit a report to the State Election Board to demonstrate that there is no suitable facility within the precinct prior to establishing the polling place outside the boundaries of the precinct.
(f) A polling place shall not be changed on a day in which a primary, election, or runoff is held, or during the 60 day period prior to any general primary or general election or runoff from such primary or election, nor shall a polling place be changed in the 30 day period prior to any special primary or special election or runoff from such special primary or special election, except, in the discretion of the superintendent, when an emergency or event occurs during such time period which renders the polling place unavailable for use at such general primary, general election, special primary, special election, or runoff.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 19, eff. 3/25/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 24,§ 14, eff. 4/2/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 250,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 874,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2007.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 165, § 20, eff. 7/1/2001.
