# § 21-2-270. County-wide polling place in certain run-off primaries

(a) This Code section shall apply to a run-off primary held in a county where:
  (1) No run-off election is to be held for election of any candidate who is elected at a nonpartisan election;
  (2) A run-off primary is to be held for nomination of one or more candidates who are nominated by one political party for election to the United States House of Representatives or to an office elected by the voters of the entire state; and no run-off primary is to be held for any candidate who is nominated by any other political party or any candidate who is nominated for election other than to the United States House of Representatives or to an office elected other than by the voters of the entire state; and
  (3) Fewer than 1 percent of the county's registered voters voted at the primary of the political party by which a candidate or candidates are to be nominated at the run-off primary.
(b) In any case to which this Code section applies, only one polling place shall be required to be open in the county at the run-off primary; and such polling place shall be the polling place for the precinct wherein the county courthouse is located. Any voter who is otherwise eligible to vote in such run-off primary shall be entitled to vote in said run-off primary at said single polling place. If the superintendent determines that a single polling place is insufficient, all polling places within the county shall be open.
(c) In any case in which only one polling place is to be utilized pursuant to this Code section, the superintendent shall cause an advertisement to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the run-off primary. Such advertisement shall be in substantially the following form: "At the run-off primary to be held in __________________ County on (date) for the nomination of candidates of the __________________ Party, only one polling place shall be open and such polling place will be located at __________________. Any voter who desires to vote in such run-off primary must vote at said polling place and no other polling places will be open for the run-off primary."
(d) The superintendent shall also cause a copy of such notice to be prominently posted at each polling place in the county on the date of the run-off primary and on each of the 14 days immediately preceding the date of the run-off primary. The superintendent shall also request the news media to provide news coverage of the fact that all persons desiring to vote at the run-off primary must vote at said single polling place.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 166, § 15, eff. 7/1/2001.
