# § 21-2-33.2. Extraordinary relief; hearings; suspension and reinstatement of superintendents; litigation expenses

(a) The governing authority of a county or municipality, as applicable, following a recommendation based on an investigation by a performance review board pursuant to Code Section 21-2-106 may petition the State Election Board, through the Secretary of State, for extraordinary relief pursuant to this Code section. In addition, the State Election Board, on its own motion or following a recommendation based on an investigation by a performance review board pursuant to Part 5 of this article, may pursue the extraordinary relief provided in this Code section.
(b) Upon receiving a petition or taking appropriate action pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, the State Election Board shall conduct a preliminary investigation to determine if sufficient cause exists to proceed to a full hearing on the petition. Such preliminary investigation shall be followed by a preliminary hearing which shall take place not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days after the Secretary of State receives the petition. Service of the petition shall be made by hand delivery or by statutory overnight delivery to the Secretary of State's office. At such preliminary hearing, the State Election Board shall determine if sufficient cause exists to proceed to a full hearing on the petition or if the petition should be dismissed. The State Election Board shall promulgate rules and regulations for conducting such preliminary investigation and preliminary hearing.
(c) Following the preliminary hearing described in subsection (b) of this Code section, the State Election Board may suspend a county or municipal superintendent pursuant to this Code section if at least three members of the board find, after notice and hearing, that:
  (1) By a preponderance of the evidence, a county or municipal superintendent has committed at least three violations of this title or of State Election Board rules and regulations, in the last two general election cycles; and the county or municipal superintendent has not sufficiently remedied the violations; or
  (2) By clear and convincing evidence, the county or municipal superintendent has, for at least two elections within a two-year period, demonstrated nonfeasance, malfeasance, or gross negligence in the administration of the elections.
(d) A majority of the members of a board of elections, board of elections and registration, or county commission or, for a sole commissioner form of government, a sole commissioner may petition the Secretary of State to continue any hearing scheduled pursuant to this Code section. Upon a showing of good cause, the State Election Board may in its sound discretion continue any such hearing. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, deliberations held on such petition by the State Election Board shall not be open to the public; provided, however, that testimony shall be taken in an open meeting and a vote on the recommendation shall be taken in an open meeting following the hearing or at the next regularly scheduled meeting.
(e)
  (1) If the State Election Board makes a finding in accordance with subsection (c) of this Code section, it may suspend the superintendent or board of registrars with pay and appoint an individual to serve as the temporary superintendent. The temporary superintendent who is appointed shall be otherwise qualified to serve or meet the necessary qualifications within three months of appointment.
  (2) Any superintendent suspended under this Code section may petition the State Election Board for reinstatement no earlier than 30 days following suspension and no later than 60 days following suspension. In the event that a suspended superintendent or registrar does not petition for reinstatement within the allotted time period, his or her suspension shall be converted into permanent removal, and the temporary superintendent shall become a permanent superintendent subject to removal by the jurisdiction not less than nine months after his or her appointment.
  (3) If, after the expiration of the nine-month period following the appointment, the jurisdiction removes the permanent superintendent, any provisions of local or general law governing appointment of the superintendent shall govern the appointment of the superintendent.
  (4) If, at any time after the expiration of the nine-month period following the appointment, at least three members of the State Election Board find, after notice and hearing, that the jurisdiction no longer requires a superintendent appointed under this Code section, any provisions of local or general law governing appointment of the superintendent shall govern the appointment of the superintendent.
(f) Upon petition for reinstatement by a superintendent suspended pursuant to a finding under paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of this Code section, the State Election Board shall conduct a hearing for the purpose of receiving evidence relative to whether the superintendent's continued service as superintendent is more likely than not to improve the ability of the jurisdiction to conduct elections in a manner that complies with this chapter. The suspended superintendent shall be given at least 30 days' notice prior to such hearing and such hearing shall be held no later than 90 days after the petition is filed in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," except that the State Election Board shall have the power to call witnesses and request documents on its own initiative. If the State Election Board denies the petition, it shall be deemed a final agency decision under Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and it may be appealed in a manner consistent with Code Section 50-13-19. The Attorney General or his or her designee shall represent the interests of the State Election Board in any such judicial review.
(g) A local government shall not expend any public funds for attorneys' fees or expenses of litigation relating to the proceedings initiated pursuant to this Code section except to the extent such fees and expenses are incurred prior to and through the recommendation of the State Election Board as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section; provided, however, that nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit an insurance provider from covering attorneys' fees or expenses of litigation under an insurance policy. Any suspended superintendent who is reinstated by the State Election Board pursuant to this Code section may be reimbursed by the local government for his or her reasonable attorneys' fees and related expenses incurred in pursuing such reinstatement.
(h) For purposes of this Code section, where a judge of probate court serves as the superintendent, the suspension authorized by this Code section shall apply only to the judge of probate court's duties as a superintendent and not as a judge of probate court.
(i) When the State Election Board exercises its authority under subsection (f) of Code Section 21-2-33.1, the jurisdiction involved shall not diminish or reduce the funds already budgeted or appropriated by the jurisdiction pursuant to Code Section 21-2-71 and shall pay any necessary and reasonable funds over that amount, as determined by the temporary superintendent, to faithfully carry out their obligations under Code Section 21-2-70.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 580,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2025.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 7, eff. 3/25/2021.
