# § 21-2-381.1. Procedures for voting with special write-in absentee ballots by qualified absentee electors

(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, a qualified absentee elector, as defined in Code Section 21-2-380, in general, special, primary, and run-off elections, who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, and who makes timely application for but does not receive an official absentee ballot may vote by completing, signing, and mailing a federal write-in absentee ballot promulgated under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended.
(b)
  (1) Any elector who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, when voting a federal write-in absentee ballot for a federal general, special, or run-off election, may designate a candidate by writing in the name of the candidate or by writing in a party preference for each office. A written designation of the political party shall be counted as a vote for the candidate of that party.
  (2) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, an elector who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, may vote in any election for a public office other than for a federal office by using the addendum provided in the federal write-in absentee ballot and writing in the title of the office and the name of the candidate for whom the elector is voting. In a general, special, or run-off election, the elector may alternatively designate a candidate by writing in a party preference for each office, the names of specific candidates for each office, or the name of the person who the elector prefers for each office. A written designation of the political party shall be counted as a vote for the candidate of that party. In addition, such elector may vote on any constitutional amendment or question presented to the electors in such election by identifying the constitutional amendment or question with regard to which such elector desires to vote and specifying the elector's vote on such amendment or question.
  (3) If the elector is voting in a primary or primary runoff, the elector shall identify the political party for which the elector has requested a ballot in the appropriate section of the federal write-in absentee ballot. A vote cast by writing in the name of a candidate who is not affiliated with the identified political party ballot is void and shall not be counted.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, a federal write-in absentee ballot shall be submitted and processed in the same manner as provided for official absentee ballots. A federal write-in absentee ballot of any elector who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, shall not be counted:
  (1) In the case of a ballot submitted by an overseas elector who is not an absent uniformed services elector, if the ballot is submitted from any location in the United States;
  (2) If the application of an elector who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, for an absentee ballot is received by the appropriate board of registrars after two days prior to a general, special, primary, or run-off election; or
  (3) If an official absentee ballot of an elector who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, is received by the appropriate board of registrars not later than the deadline for receipt of absentee ballots under subparagraph (a)(1)(G) of Code Section 21-2-386.
(d) The following rules shall apply with respect to federal write-in absentee ballots:
  (1) In completing the ballot, an elector who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, may designate a candidate by writing in the name of the candidate or by writing in the name of a political party, in which case the ballot shall be counted for the candidate of that political party;
  (2) In the case of the offices of President and Vice President, a vote for a named candidate or a vote by writing in the name of a political party shall be counted as a vote for the electors supporting the candidate involved; and
  (3) Any abbreviation, misspelling, or other minor variation in the form of the name of the candidate or a political party shall be disregarded in determining the validity of the ballot, if the intention of the elector can be ascertained.
(e) Any elector who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, who submits a federal write-in absentee ballot and later receives an official absentee ballot, may submit the official absentee ballot. An elector who is entitled to vote by absentee ballot under the federal Uniformed and Overseas Citizens Absentee Voting Act, 52 U.S.C. Section 20301, et seq., as amended, who submits a federal write-in absentee ballot and later receives and submits an official absentee ballot should make every reasonable effort to inform the appropriate board of registrars that the elector has submitted more than one ballot.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 240,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 502,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
