# § 21-2-330. Public exhibition of and instruction on sample voting machine

(a) During the five days preceding a municipal general primary or election or during the three days preceding a municipal special primary or election, the superintendent shall place on public exhibition, in such public places and at such times as he or she may deem most suitable for the information and instruction of the electors, one or more voting machines containing the ballot labels and showing the offices and questions to be voted upon, the names and arrangements of parties and bodies, and, so far as practicable, the names and arrangements of the candidates to be voted for. Such machine or machines shall be under the charge and care of a person competent as custodian and instructor. No voting machine which is to be assigned for use in a primary or election shall be used for such public exhibition and instruction after having been prepared and sealed for the primary or election.
(b) During such public exhibition and instruction, the counting mechanism of the voting machine shall be concealed from view and the doors or cover concealing the same shall be opened, if at all, only temporarily and only upon written authorization from the superintendent.
(c) Prior to any primary or election, the superintendent may cause copies of any diagram or diagrams required to be furnished with voting machines at polling places to be made, either in full size or in reduced size, and to be posted, published, advertised, or distributed among the electors in such manner as he or she may deem desirable.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 43, eff. 7/1/2005.
