# § 21-2-112. Hearings before state committee; suspension of powers and duties of county committee; delegation of powers by state committee

(a) When the state executive committee of a political party has reason to believe that the orders, rules, or regulations of the state executive committee, relating to all party matters except the conduct of primaries, are not being, or will not be, fairly, impartially, or properly enforced or applied in any county by the county executive committee of the party in such county, the state executive committee shall issue to such county committee a written notice of opportunity for hearing.
(b) A notice of opportunity for hearing shall state the substance of the order which the state committee proposes to issue under subsection (e) of this Code section and advise such county committee of its right to a hearing upon request to the state committee if such request is received by it within the time specified in the notice.
(c) Whenever such county committee requests a hearing in accordance with this Code section, the state committee shall immediately set a date, time, and place for such hearing and shall forthwith notify the county committee thereof.
(d) A stenographic record of the testimony and other evidence submitted at the hearing shall be taken and filed with the state committee. Each witness appearing at the hearing shall be sworn prior to testifying.
(e) If the state committee does not receive a timely request for hearing or if a hearing is requested and conducted as provided in this Code section and the state committee determines that all or any part of the proposed relief described in the notice of opportunity for hearing should be granted, the state committee may issue an order, effective for a certain period, suspending and superseding all or any part of the powers and duties of the county committee and directing that the powers and duties which would have been exercised and performed by such county executive committee in those matters in which they have been suspended and superseded shall be exercised and performed by the persons designated by the state executive committee, who may be residents of any county of this state, notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter.
(f) The state executive committee may delegate its powers under this Code section to a subcommittee.
