# § 21-2-220.1. Required documentation for voter registration

(a) Any person applying to register to vote shall provide his or her Georgia driver's license number or identification card number for an identification card issued pursuant to Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Title 40 on the voter registration application. If a person does not have a Georgia driver's license or identification card issued pursuant to Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Title 40, such person shall provide the last four digits of his or her social security number on the voter registration application. If a person does not have a Georgia driver's license, a Georgia identification card issued pursuant to Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Title 40, or a social security number, the person shall affirm this fact in the manner prescribed in the voter registration application upon penalty of law and such application shall be processed without regard to the procedures outlined in subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Code section.
(b) In the event that the name, driver's license number, social security number, or date of birth provided by the person registering to vote on the voter registration form does not match information about the applicant on file at the Department of Driver Services or the federal Social Security Administration, the applicant shall nevertheless be registered to vote but shall be required to produce proof of his or her identity to a county registrar, a deputy county registrar, a poll manager, or a poll worker at or before the time that such applicant requests a ballot for the first time in any federal, state, or local election.
(c) Proof of the applicant's identity as set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section shall be the forms of identification listed in subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-417.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 24,§ 6, eff. 4/2/2019.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 250,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2017.
