# § 21-2-421. Posting of required information after closing of polls; reporting to Secretary of State

(a) As soon as possible but not later than 11:59 P.M. following the close of the polls on the day of a primary, election, or runoff, the election superintendent shall report to the Secretary of State and post in a prominent public place the following information:
  (1) The number of ballots cast at the polls on the day of the primary, election, or runoff, including provisional ballots cast;
  (2) The number of ballots cast at advance voting locations during the advance voting period for the primary, election, or runoff; and
  (3) The total number of absentee ballots returned to the board of registrars by the deadline to receive such absentee ballots on the day of the primary, election, or runoff.
(b) Upon the completion of the report provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section, the election superintendent shall compare the total number of ballots received as reported in subsection (a) of this Code section and the counting of the ballots in the primary, election, or runoff minus any rejected and uncured absentee ballots, uncounted provisional ballots, and any other uncounted ballots, with the total number of ballots cast in the primary, election, or runoff. The results of such comparison and all explanatory materials shall be reported to the Secretary of State. The reason for any discrepancy shall be fully investigated and reported to the Secretary of State.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 341,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 36, eff. 3/25/2021.
