# § 21-2-232. Removal of elector's name from list of electors

(a) An elector may request to have such elector's name removed from the list of electors by making a written request to the registrars of such elector's county of residence. Upon receipt of such request, the registrars shall remove such elector's name from the list of electors and shall confirm such removal by written notice by first-class mail sent to the address on the elector's registration records.
(b)
  (1) When an elector of this state moves to another state and registers to vote and the registration officials in such state send a notice of cancellation reflecting the registration of the elector in the other state, which includes a copy of such elector's voter registration application bearing the elector's signature, the Secretary of State or the board of registrars, as the case may be, shall remove such elector's name from the list of electors. It shall not be necessary to send a confirmation notice to the elector in such circumstances.
  (2) When an elector of this state moves to another state and the registration officials in such other state or a nongovernmental entity as described in subsection (d) of Code Section 21-2-225 send a notice of cancellation or other information indicating that the elector has moved to such state but such notice or information does not include a copy of such elector's voter registration application in such other state bearing the elector's signature, the Secretary of State or the board of registrars, as the case may be, shall send a confirmation notice to the elector as provided in Code Section 21-2-234.
  (3) Once becoming a member of the nongovernmental entity described in subsection (d) of Code Section 21-2-225, the Secretary of State shall obtain regular information from such entity regarding electors who may have moved to another state, died, or otherwise become ineligible to vote in Georgia. The Secretary of State shall use such information to conduct list maintenance on the list of eligible electors.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 17, eff. 3/25/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 24,§ 10, eff. 4/2/2019.
