# § 21-2-440. Duty of poll officers to sign general returns; posting of copy of returns; delivery of copy of materials to superintendent

(a) Immediately after the vote has been counted in precincts in which paper ballots are used, all of the general returns shall be signed by the poll officers. If any poll officer shall refuse to sign or certify the general returns, he or she shall write his or her reasons therefor upon the general return sheets. One of such returns shall be immediately posted for the information of the public outside the polling place or place of tabulation, one of such returns shall be returned sealed to the superintendent in an envelope prepared for the Secretary of State or the city clerk, and one shall be entrusted to the chief manager for delivery to the superintendent with the package of unused ballots and other election supplies in an envelope provided for that purpose. The poll officer shall then replace all the ballots cast, so counted and canvassed, in the ballot boxes, including those declared void, spoiled, and canceled, together with the voter's certificates, one set of the tally papers, one general return sheet, one numbered list of voters, sealed as provided in this subsection, and one oath of each poll officer, and lock and seal each ballot box so that nothing can be inserted therein until it is opened again; and the chief manager and an assistant manager shall immediately deliver the ballot boxes to the custody of the superintendent. The superintendent shall not compute any returns from any precinct until the ballot boxes therefor, as well as the package of unused ballots and other election supplies therefrom, are so delivered.
(b) The tally papers, affidavits of voters and others, including oaths of poll officers, and one general return sheet shall be placed in separate envelopes to be provided for that purpose and sealed as soon as the count is finally completed. All of such envelopes and one numbered list of voters, previously sealed as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, shall be entrusted to the chief manager to be delivered immediately to the superintendent.
(c) Immediately upon completion of the count and tabulation of the votes cast, the electors list shall be sealed and returned by the chief manager to the superintendent, who shall transmit it to the registrars.
