# § 21-2-456. Form of general return sheet, duplicate return sheets, and statement; posting of vote results; delivery of documents to superintendent; seal and return of electors list upon completion of vote count and tabulation

(a) The general return sheets, duplicate return sheets, and statement shall be printed to conform with the type of voting machine used and in form approved by the Secretary of State. The designating number and letter, if any, on the counter for each candidate shall be printed thereon opposite the candidate's name. Immediately after the vote has been ascertained, the statement thereof shall be posted on the door of the polling place. Duplicate return sheets, voter's certificates, numbered list of voters, oaths of poll officers, and affidavits of voters and others shall be sealed and given to the chief manager, who shall deliver them, together with the general return sheet and the package of ballots deposited, written, or affixed in or upon the voting machine, to the superintendent. The voter's certificates, rejected voter's certificates, and oaths of assisted voters shall be sealed in a separate envelope addressed to the board of registrars and bearing a list of its contents on the outside. This envelope shall be immediately delivered by the managers into the custody of the superintendent. If the type of voting machine is equipped with a mechanism for printing paper proof sheets, one of such proof sheets shall be posted on the door of the polling place with such statement; one shall be returned with a precinct return sheet sealed in an envelope prepared for the Secretary of State; one shall be placed in the envelope and delivered with the general return sheet; and one shall be sealed in the envelope with the duplicate return sheets and delivered by the chief manager to the superintendent. The printed proof sheet returned with the general return sheet and the printed proof sheet returned with the duplicate return sheet shall each be part of the return of the primary or election.
(b) Immediately upon the completion of the count and tabulation of the vote cast, the electors list shall be sealed and returned immediately by the chief manager to the superintendent, who shall transmit it to the registrars.
