# § 21-2-379.11. Procedure for tabulation of votes

(a) In primaries and elections in which direct recording electronic (DRE) voting equipment is used, the ballots shall be counted at the precinct or tabulating center under the direction of the superintendent. All persons who perform any duties at the tabulating center shall be deputized by the superintendent and only persons so deputized shall touch any ballot, container, paper, or machine utilized in the conduct of the count or be permitted to be in the immediate area designated for officers deputized to conduct the count.
(b) All proceedings at the tabulating center and precincts shall be open to the view of the public, but no person except one employed and designated for the purpose by the superintendent or the superintendent's authorized deputy shall touch any ballot, any DRE unit, or the tabulating equipment.
(c) After the polls have closed and all voting in the precinct has ceased, the poll manager shall shut down the DRE units and extract the election results from each unit as follows:
  (1) The manager shall obtain the results tape from each DRE unit and verify that the number of ballots cast as recorded on the tape matches the public count number as displayed on the DRE unit;
  (2) If a system is established by the Secretary of State, the poll manager shall first transmit the election results extracted from each DRE unit in each precinct via modem to the central tabulating center of the county; and
  (3) The manager shall then extract the memory card from each DRE unit.
(d) Upon completion of shutting down each DRE unit and extracting the election results, the manager shall cause to be completed and signed a ballot recap form, in sufficient counterparts, showing:
  (1) The number of valid ballots;
  (2) The number of spoiled and invalid ballots;
  (3) The number of provisional ballots; and
  (4) The number of unused provisional ballots and any other unused ballots. The manager shall cause to be placed in the ballot supply container one copy of the recap form and any unused, defective, spoiled, and invalid ballots, each enclosed in an envelope.
(e) The manager shall collect and retain the zero tape and the results tape for each DRE unit and place such tapes with the memory card for each unit, and all such items for all of the DRE units used in the precinct shall be sealed in an envelope or container and initialed or signed by the manager so that it cannot be opened without breaking the seal.
(f) The manager and one poll worker shall then deliver the envelope or container to the tabulating center for the county or municipality or to such other place designated by the superintendent and shall receive a receipt therefor. The copies of the recap forms, unused ballots, records, and other materials shall be returned to the designated location and retained as provided by law.
(g) Upon receipt of the sealed envelope or container containing the zero tapes, results tapes, and memory cards, the election superintendent shall verify the initials or signatures on the envelope. Once verified, the superintendent shall break the seal of the envelope or container and remove its contents. The superintendent shall then download the results stored on the memory card from each DRE unit into the election management system located at the central tabulation point of the county in order to obtain election results for certification.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 25, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 34, eff. 7/1/2003.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 769, § 1-4, eff. 5/13/2002.
