# § 21-2-503. Issuance of commission to person whose election is contested; procedure upon finding that person to whom commission was issued was not legally elected; swearing into office of person whose election is contested

(a) A commission which is to be issued, as provided for by this chapter, to any person elected to any office shall be issued notwithstanding the fact that the election of such person to any such office may be contested in the manner provided by this chapter. Whenever it shall appear, by the final judgment of the proper tribunal having jurisdiction of a contested election, that the person to whom such commission shall have been issued has not been elected legally to the office for which he or she has been commissioned, then a commission shall be issued to the person who shall appear to be elected legally to such office. The issuing of such commission shall nullify the commission already issued; and all power and authority first issued under such commission shall thereupon cease.
(b) Upon the certification of the results of the election, a person elected to a municipal office may be sworn into office notwithstanding that the election of such person may be contested in the manner provided by this chapter. Upon the final judgment of the proper tribunal having jurisdiction of a contested election which orders a second election or declares that another person was legally elected to the office, the person sworn into municipal office shall cease to hold the office and shall cease to exercise the powers, duties, and privileges of the office immediately.
(c) Upon the certification of the results of the election, a person elected to a federal, state, or county office may be sworn into office notwithstanding that the election of such person may be contested in the manner provided by this chapter. Upon the final judgment of the proper tribunal having jurisdiction of a contested election which orders a second election or declares that another person was legally elected to the office, the person sworn into such office shall cease to hold the office and shall cease to exercise the powers, duties, and privileges of the office immediately.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 240,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2011.
