# § 21-2-379.7. Preparation of polling places

(a) The superintendent or the custodians shall deliver the proper direct recording electronic (DRE) units to the polling places of the respective precincts at least one hour before the time for opening the polls at each primary or election and shall cause each unit to be set up in the proper manner for use in voting.
(b) The superintendent shall require that each DRE unit be thoroughly tested, inspected, and sealed prior to the delivery of each DRE unit to the polling place. Prior to opening the polls each day on which the units will be used in a primary or election, the manager shall break the seal on each unit, turn on each unit, certify that each unit is operating properly and is set to zero, and print a zero tape certifying that each unit is set to zero and shall keep or record such certification on each unit.
(c) The superintendent and poll managers shall provide ample protection against molestation of and injury to the DRE units, and, for that purpose, the superintendent and poll manager may call upon any law enforcement officer to furnish such assistance as may be necessary. It shall be the duty of any such law enforcement officer to furnish such assistance when so requested by the superintendent or poll manager.
(d) The superintendent shall, at least one hour prior to the opening of the polls:
  (1) Provide sufficient lighting to enable electors, if needed in the voting booth, to read the ballot and which shall be suitable for the use of the poll officers in examining the booth and conducting their responsibilities;
  (2) Provide directions for voting on the DRE units which shall be prominently posted within each voting booth and at least two sample ballots for the primary or election which shall be prominently posted outside the enclosed space within the polling place;
  (3) Ensure that each DRE unit's tabulating mechanism is secure throughout the day during the primary or election;
  (4) Provide at least one DRE unit accessible to disabled electors at each precinct; and
  (5) Provide such other materials and supplies as may be necessary or required by law.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 10, § 1, eff. 5/14/2003.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 33, eff. 7/1/2003.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 769, § 1-4, eff. 5/13/2002.
