# § 21-2-379.6. Maintenance of voting systems and supplies

(a) The superintendent of each county or municipality shall cause the proper ballot design and style to be programmed for each direct recording electronic (DRE) unit which is to be used in any precinct within such county or municipality, cause each such unit to be placed in proper order for voting, examine each unit before it is sent to a polling place, verify that each registering mechanism is set at zero, and properly secure each unit so that the counting machinery cannot be operated until later authorized.
(b) The superintendent may appoint, with the approval of the county or municipal governing authority, as appropriate, a custodian of the DRE units, and deputy custodians as may be necessary, whose duty shall be to prepare the units to be used in the county or municipality at the primaries and elections to be held therein. Each custodian and deputy custodian shall receive from the county or municipality such compensation as shall be fixed by the governing authority of the county or municipality. Such custodian shall, under the direction of the superintendent, have charge of and represent the superintendent during the preparation of the units as required by this chapter. The custodian and deputy custodians shall serve at the pleasure of the superintendent. Each custodian shall take an oath of office prepared by the Secretary of State before each primary or election which shall be filed with the superintendent.
(c) On or before the third day preceding a primary or election, including special primaries, special elections, and referendum elections, the superintendent shall have each DRE unit tested to ascertain that it will correctly count the votes cast for all offices and on all questions in a manner that the State Election Board shall prescribe by rule or regulation. On or before the third day preceding a primary runoff or election runoff, including special primary runoffs and special election runoffs, the superintendent shall test a number of DRE units at random to ascertain that the units will correctly count the votes cast for all offices. If the total number of DRE units in the county or municipality is 30 units or less, all of the units shall be tested. If the total number of DRE units in the county or municipality is more than 30 but not more than 100, then at least one-half of the units shall be tested at random. If there are more than 100 DRE units in the county or municipality, the superintendent shall test at least 15 percent of the units at random. In no event shall the superintendent test less than one DRE unit per precinct. All memory cards to be used in the runoff shall be tested. Public notice of the time and place of the test shall be made at least five days prior thereto; provided, however, that, in the case of a runoff, the public notice shall be made at least three days prior thereto. Representatives of political parties and bodies, news media, and the public shall be permitted to observe such tests.
(d) In every primary or election, the superintendent shall furnish, at the expense of the county or municipality, all ballots, forms of certificates, and other papers and supplies required under this chapter which are not furnished by the Secretary of State, all of which shall be in the form and according to any specifications prescribed, from time to time, by the Secretary of State.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 49, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 32, eff. 7/1/2003.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 769, § 1-4, eff. 5/13/2002.
