# § 21-2-106. Performance review of local election official; role of performance review board; findings as grounds for removal

(a) The following officials may request that a performance review of a local election official be conducted:
  (1) The governing authority of the same jurisdiction as the local election official;
  (2) For counties represented by more than three members of the Georgia House of Representatives and Georgia Senate, at least two members of the Georgia House of Representatives and two members of the Georgia Senate who represent the county; and
  (3) For counties represented by fewer than four members of the Georgia House of Representatives and Georgia Senate, at least one member of the Georgia House of Representatives and one member of the Georgia Senate who represent the county. Such request shall be transmitted to the State Election Board which shall appoint an independent performance review board within 30 days after receiving such resolution. The State Election Board shall appoint three competent persons to serve as members of the performance review board, one of whom shall be an employee of the elections division of the Secretary of State and two of whom shall be local election officials or members of a county board of elections or county board of elections and registration, provided that no such appointee shall be a local election official or member of a county board of elections or county board of elections and registration for the county or municipality, as applicable, under review.
(b) It shall be the duty of a performance review board to make a thorough and complete investigation of the local election official with respect to all actions of the local election official regarding the technical competency in the maintenance and operation of election equipment, proper administration and oversight of registration and elections, and compliance with state law and regulations. The performance review board shall issue a written report of its findings to the Secretary of State, the State Election Board, and the local governing authority which shall include such evaluations, judgments, and recommendations as it deems appropriate. The local governing authority shall reimburse the members of the performance review board for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties, including mileage, meals, lodging, and costs of materials.
(c) The findings of the report of the review board under subsection (b) of this Code section or of any audit or investigation performed by the State Election Board may be grounds for removal of one or more local election officials pursuant to Code Section 21-2-33.2.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 341,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 12, eff. 3/25/2021.
