# § 21-2-218. Cancellation of registration in former state or county; address changes and corrections

(a) Any person, who is registered to vote in another state and who moves such person's residence from that state to this state, shall, at the time of making application to register to vote in this state, provide such information as specified by the Secretary of State in order to notify such person's former voting jurisdiction of the person's application to register to vote in this state and to cancel such person's registration in the former place of residence.
(b) Any person, who is registered to vote in another county or municipality in this state and who moves such person's residence from that county or municipality to another county or municipality in this state, shall, at the time of making application to register to vote in that county or municipality, provide such information as specified by the Secretary of State in order to notify such person's former voting jurisdiction of the person's application to register to vote in the new place of residence and to cancel such person's registration in the former place of residence.
(c) In the event that an elector moves to a residence within the county or municipality and has a different address from the address contained on the person's registration card, it shall be the duty of such elector to notify the board of registrars of such fact by the fifth Monday prior to the primary or election in which such elector wishes to vote by submitting the change of address in writing. The board of registrars shall then correct the elector's record to reflect the change of address and place the elector in the proper precinct and voting districts. The board of registrars may accept a properly submitted application for an absentee ballot for this purpose for electors who move to an address within the county or municipality which is different from the address contained on the person's registration card. The board of registrars may also accept a properly submitted application for an absentee ballot to correct an elector's name on the voter registration list if all necessary information to complete such a change is included with the application.
(d) In the event that an elector moves to a residence within the county or municipality but into a different precinct or who moves to a residence in the same precinct but at a different address and fails to notify the board of registrars of such fact by the fifth Monday prior to an election or primary such elector shall vote in the precinct of such elector's former residence for such election or primary and for any runoffs resulting therefrom. The superintendent of an election shall make available at each polling place forms furnished by the Secretary of State which shall be completed by each such elector to reflect such elector's present legal residence. Such forms may also be used to notify the board of registrars of a change in an elector's name. The board of registrars shall thereafter place the elector in the proper precinct and voting districts and correct the list of electors accordingly. If the elector is placed in a precinct other than the one in which such elector has previously been voting, such elector shall be notified of the new polling place by first-class mail.
(e) Any provision of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, an elector who moves from one county or municipality to another after the fifth Monday prior to a primary or election may vote in the county or municipality or precinct in which such elector is registered to vote.
(f) No person shall vote in any county or municipality other than the county or municipality of such person's residence except as provided in subsection (e) of this Code section.
(g) In the event that the registration records incorrectly indicate that an elector has moved from an address within a precinct, the elector may vote in the precinct upon affirming in writing on a form prescribed by the Secretary of State that the elector still resides in the precinct at the address previously provided to the board of registrars. The registrars shall correct the elector's registration record to reflect the correct address.
(h) If a voter registration application is completed at a polling place for the purpose of recording a change of address and the new address is outside the county, then the registrar shall forward the application to the registrar in the new county of residence.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 164, § 7, eff. 4/18/2001.
