# § 21-2-113. Chief executive and county executive committees

(a) Each political body shall establish and maintain a chief executive committee exercising jurisdiction and control over body affairs in the area of the state in which it operates and a county executive committee exercising county-wide jurisdiction and control over body affairs in each county in which the body operates if it operates in two or more counties. A body may establish and maintain such other committees as it may from time to time deem advisable. The membership of such committees shall be selected in the manner determined by the chief executive committee. Each committee shall be presided over by a chairperson and shall have a secretary and such other officers as deemed advisable.
(b) The chief executive committee of each political body shall formulate, adopt, and promulgate rules and regulations, consistent with law, governing the conduct of conventions and other body affairs. No such rule and regulation shall be effective until copies thereof, certified by the chairperson, have been filed with the Secretary of State.
(c) The respective county executive committees of each political body shall formulate, adopt, and promulgate rules and regulations, consistent with law and the rules and regulations of the chief executive committee, governing the conduct of conventions and other body affairs. No such rule or regulation shall be effective until a copy thereof, certified by the chairperson, has been filed with the superintendent of the county.
(d) Whenever a municipal executive committee of a political party is established, such committee shall formulate, adopt, and promulgate rules and regulations, consistent with law and the rules and regulations of the State Election Board and the state executive committee, governing the conduct of primaries, conventions, and other party affairs within the municipality. No such rule and regulation shall be effective until copies thereof, certified by the chairperson, have been filed with the clerk of the municipality.
