# § 21-2-45. Creation of joint county-municipal board of elections and board of elections and registration

(a) The General Assembly may by local Act create a joint county-municipal board of elections in any county of this state for that county and any municipality located wholly or partially within that county and empower the board with the powers and duties of the election superintendent of that county and municipality with regard to the conduct of primaries and elections. Such board shall consist of not fewer than three members.
(b) The General Assembly may by local Act create a joint county-municipal board of elections and registration in any county of this state for that county and any municipality located wholly or partially within that county and empower the board with the powers and duties of the election superintendent of that county and municipality with regard to the conduct of primaries and elections and empower the board with the powers and duties of the registrars and board of registrars of that municipality and county with regard to the registration of voters and absentee-balloting procedures. Such board shall consist of not fewer than three members.
(c) The governing authority of any municipality may authorize any county within which that municipality wholly or partially lies to conduct any or all elections held pursuant to this chapter. In the event a municipality shall by ordinance authorize such county to conduct elections, such municipality may request such county to perform any or all of the functions:
  (1) That the county shall perform all duties as superintendent of elections as specified under this chapter;
  (2) That the county shall perform all duties as superintendent of elections as specified under this chapter, with the exception of the qualification of candidates; or
  (3) That the county shall lease or loan any or all of its election equipment to the municipality for the purpose of conducting municipal elections without any responsibility on the part of the county for the actual conduct of the municipal election. With reference to any election, such municipality shall pay such county all costs incurred in performing those functions which the municipality has requested the county to perform; and, unless otherwise authorized, such county shall only perform those functions specifically enumerated in the contract. Such county shall have authority to conduct elections in any and all counties in which any part of such municipality may lie.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
