# § 21-2-9. Date of election for offices

(a) The Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, Attorney General, State School Superintendent, Commissioner of Insurance, Commissioner of Agriculture, Commissioner of Labor, members of Congress, district attorneys, members of the General Assembly, and county officers not elected pursuant to Code Section 21-2-139 shall be elected in the November election next preceding the expiration of the term of office.
(b) Justices of the Supreme Court, Judges of the Court of Appeals, judges of the superior courts, and county judicial officers, offices of local school boards, and nonpartisan offices elected pursuant to Code Section 21-2-139 shall be elected in the nonpartisan general election next preceding the expiration of the term of office.
(c) All general municipal elections to fill municipal offices shall be held on the Tuesday next following the first Monday in November in each odd-numbered year. Public notice of such elections shall be published by the governing authority of the municipality in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality at least 30 days prior to the elections. In addition, the municipality shall immediately transmit a copy of such notice to the Secretary of State.
(d) Whenever a municipal general primary or election is held in conjunction with the general primary or November general election in even-numbered years, the time specified for the closing of the registration list, the time within which candidates must qualify for the municipal primary or election, and the time specified for the holding of any runoff necessary shall be the same as specified for general elections.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 718,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2005.
