# § 21-2-379.4. Ballot appearance; write in votes on DRE systems

(a) The ballots for direct recording electronic (DRE) voting systems shall be of such size and arrangement as will suit the construction of the DRE screen and shall be in plain, clear type that is easily readable by persons with normal vision. If the equipment has the capacity for color display, the names of all candidates in a particular race shall be displayed in the same color, font, and size and the political party or body affiliation of candidates may be displayed in a color different from that used to display the names of the candidates, but all political party or body affiliations shall be displayed in the same color. All candidates' names and political parties shall be printed in the same size and font. All ballot questions and constitutional amendments shall be displayed in the same color.
(b) The arrangement of offices, names of candidates, and questions upon the ballots shall conform as nearly as practicable to this chapter for the arrangement of such offices, names of candidates, and questions on paper ballots.
(c) Electors shall be permitted to cast write-in votes on DRE voting systems as provided in Code Section 21-2-133. The design of the ballot shall permit the election superintendent and poll workers when obtaining the vote count from such systems to determine readily whether an elector has cast any write-in vote not authorized by law.
(d) The form and arrangement of ballots shall be prescribed by the Secretary of State and prepared by the election superintendent.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 10, § 1, eff. 5/14/2003.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 769, § 1-3, eff. 5/13/2002.
