# § 21-2-575. Counterfeit ballots or ballot labels; sample or facsimile ballots

(a) Any person who makes, constructs, or has in his or her possession any counterfeit of an official ballot or ballot label shall be guilty of a felony.
(b) This Code section shall not be applied to facsimile ballots printed and published as an aid to electors in any newspaper generally and regularly circulated within this state, so long as such facsimile ballot is at least 25 percent larger or smaller than the official ballot of which it is a facsimile. This Code section shall not be applied to any sample or facsimile ballots or ballot labels obtained under Code Section 21-2-400. Nothing in this Code section shall be so construed as to prohibit the procurement and distribution of reprints of the said newspaper printings; nor shall it be so construed as to prohibit the preparation and distribution by election officials of facsimile ballots and ballot labels or portions thereof, provided that they are of a different color and at least 25 percent larger or smaller than the official ballots or ballot labels.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall be so construed as to prohibit any person from procuring and distributing reprints or portions of reprints of any sample or facsimile ballots or ballot labels as provided in Code Section 21-2-400, provided such reprints or portions of reprints are of a different color and at least 25 percent larger or smaller than the official ballots or ballot labels.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 632,§ 29, eff. 7/1/2010.
