# § 21-2-33.1. Enforcement of chapter; suspension of election superintendents; support and assistance from the Secretary of State

(a) The State Election Board is vested with the power to issue orders, after the completion of appropriate proceedings, directing compliance with this chapter or prohibiting the actual or threatened commission of any conduct constituting a violation, which order may include a provision requiring the violator:
  (1) To cease and desist from committing further violations;
  (2) To pay a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000.00 for each violation of this chapter or for each failure to comply with any provision of this chapter or of any rule or regulation promulgated under this chapter. Such penalty may be assessed against any violator as the State Election Board deems appropriate;
  (3) To publicly reprimand any violator found to have committed a violation;
  (4) To require that restitution be paid by any violator to a state, county, or city governing authority when it has suffered a monetary loss or damage as the result of a violation;
  (5) To require violators to attend training as specified by the board; and
  (6) To assess investigative costs incurred by the board against any violator found to have committed a violation.
(b) A civil penalty shall not be assessed against any violator except after notice and hearing as provided by Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." In addition to the State Election Board, any contested case may be held before any representative of such board who has been selected and appointed by such board for such purpose. The amount of any civil penalty finally assessed shall be recoverable by a civil action brought in the name of the State Election Board. All moneys recovered pursuant to this Code section shall be deposited in the state treasury.
(c) The Attorney General of this state shall, upon complaint by the State Election Board, bring an action in the superior court in the name of the State Election Board for a temporary restraining order or other injunctive relief or for civil penalties assessed against any violator of any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation duly issued by the State Election Board.
(d) Any action brought by the Attorney General to enforce civil penalties assessed against any violator of this chapter or any rule or regulation duly issued by the State Election Board or any order issued by the State Election Board ordering compliance or to cease and desist from further violations shall be brought in the superior court of the county of the residence of the party against whom relief is sought. Service of process shall lie in any jurisdiction within the state. In such actions, the superior court inquiry will be limited to whether notice was given by the State Election Board to the violator in compliance with the Constitution and the rules of procedure of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Upon satisfaction that notice was given and a hearing was held pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," the superior court shall enforce the orders of the State Election Board and the civil penalties assessed under this chapter and the superior court shall not make independent inquiry as to whether the violations have occurred.
(e) In any action brought by the Attorney General to enforce any of the provisions of this chapter or of any rule or regulation issued by the State Election Board, the judgment, if in favor of the State Election Board, shall provide that the defendant pay to the State Election Board the costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the State Election Board in the prosecution of such action.
(f) After following the procedures set forth in Code Section 21-2-33.2, the State Election Board may suspend county or municipal superintendents and appoint an individual to serve as the temporary superintendent in a jurisdiction. Such individual shall exercise all the powers and duties of a superintendent as provided by law, including the authority to make all personnel decisions related to any employees of the jurisdiction who assist with carrying out the duties of the superintendent, including, but not limited to, the director of elections, the election supervisor, and all poll officers.
(g) At no time shall the State Election Board suspend more than four county or municipal superintendents pursuant to subsection (f) of this Code section.
(h) The Secretary of State shall, upon the request of the State Election Board, provide any and all necessary support and assistance that the State Election Board, in its sole discretion, determines is necessary to enforce this chapter or to carry out or conduct any of its duties.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 6, eff. 3/25/2021.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2005.
