# § 21-2-8. Eligibility for party nomination, public office, or performance of certain official acts of persons convicted and sentenced for certain crimes; illegally holding any public funds; effect of disqualification of superintendent

No person shall be eligible for party nomination for or election to public office, nor shall he or she perform any official acts or duties as a superintendent, registrar, deputy registrar, poll officer, or party officer, as set forth in this chapter, in connection with any election or primary held under this chapter, if under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States he or she has been convicted and sentenced, in any court of competent jurisdiction, for fraudulent violation of primary or election laws, malfeasance in office, or felony involving moral turpitude, unless such person's civil rights have been restored and at least ten years have elapsed from the date of the completion of the sentence without a subsequent conviction of another felony involving moral turpitude. Additionally, the person shall not be holding illegally any public funds. In the event of the disqualification of the superintendent as described in this Code section, the clerk of the superior court shall act in his or her stead. Notwithstanding the above, the governing authority of a municipality shall appoint an individual to serve as superintendent for municipal elections or municipal primaries in the event of the disqualification of the municipal superintendent, unless the municipality has contracted with a county government for the provision of election services, in which event the clerk of the superior court shall act in place of a disqualified superintendent.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 165, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
