# § 21-2-390. Delivery of election materials to clerk of superior court or city clerk; accounting for ballots; inspection and audit of information contained in absentee ballot applications or envelopes

(a) All official absentee ballots and envelopes on which the forms of affidavits and jurats appear shall be delivered to the clerk of the superior court or the city clerk upon the conclusion of the primary or election and shall be safely kept by him or her for the period required by law and then shall be destroyed. The applications for such ballots shall be retained by the board of registrars or the municipal absentee ballot clerk for at least 24 months and then may be destroyed. On the day following the primary or election, the board of registrars or the municipal absentee ballot clerk shall transmit all canceled, spoiled, and rejected absentee ballots and copies of requests for cancellation of absentee ballots to the clerk of the superior court or the city clerk to be held with other election materials as provided in Code Section 21-2-500. The registrars or the municipal absentee ballot clerk shall also transmit an accounting of all absentee ballots, including the number furnished by the registrars or the municipal absentee ballot clerk, the number issued to electors, the number spoiled, and the number rejected.
(b) The Secretary of State shall be authorized to inspect and audit the information contained in the absentee ballot applications or envelopes at his or her discretion at any time during the 24 month retention period. Such audit may be conducted state wide or in selected counties or cities and may include the auditing of a statistically significant sample of the envelopes or a full audit of all of such envelopes. For this purpose, the Secretary of State or his or her authorized agents shall have access to such envelopes in the custody of the clerk of superior court or city clerk.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 30, eff. 3/25/2021.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 41, eff. 7/1/2003.
