# § 21-2-523. Jurisdiction and pretrial procedures; notification; selection and compensation of judge

(a) A contest case governed by this article shall be tried and determined by the superior court of the county where the defendant resides, except that a municipal contest case shall be tried and determined by the superior court of the county where the city hall is located. A contest case challenging the eligibility of the two defendants declared as eligible to compete with each other in a run-off primary or election shall be tried and determined by the superior court of the county where the defendant who received the highest number of votes resides.
(b) The superior court having jurisdiction of a contest case governed by this article shall be presided over by a superior court judge or senior judge. The superior court judge or senior judge who presides over the contest shall be selected as set out in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(c) Upon the filing of a contest petition, the clerk of the superior court having jurisdiction shall immediately notify the administrative judge for the judicial administrative district in which that county lies, or the district court administrator, who shall immediately notify the administrative judge, of the institution of proceedings under this article. If the county in which the proceedings were instituted is not in the circuit of the administrative judge, the administrative judge shall select a superior court judge from within the district, but not from the circuit in which the proceeding was instituted, or a senior judge not a resident of the circuit in which the proceeding was instituted, to preside over the contest.
(d) If the administrative judge is a member of the circuit in which the proceeding was filed, or if the other judges of the district are unable or are unwilling to preside over the proceeding, or if the other judges of the district are judges of the circuit in which the proceeding was filed, then the administrative judge shall select an administrative judge of an adjoining district to select a superior court judge from that district, or a superior court judge from the district in which the proceeding was filed, but not the circuit in which the proceeding was filed, or a senior judge who is not a resident of the circuit wherein the proceeding was filed.
(e) After a judge has agreed to preside over the case, the administrative judge who selected the judge to hear the matter shall enter an order in the superior court of the county where the proceeding was filed appointing such judge, and such judge shall promptly begin presiding over such proceedings in such court and shall determine same as soon as practicable. Such judge shall be reimbursed for his or her actual expenses for food and lodging and shall receive the same mileage as any other state officials and employees. Senior judges shall be entitled to compensation and reimbursement as the law provides for senior judge service.
