# § 21-2-107. Authority of State Election Board to appoint independent performance review board; operation and reporting

(a) The State Election Board shall appoint an independent performance review board on its own motion if it determines that there is evidence which calls into question the competence of a local election official regarding the oversight and administration of elections, voter registration, or both, with state law and regulations.
(b) The State Election Board shall appoint three competent persons to serve as members of the performance review board, one of whom shall be an employee of the elections division of the office of Secretary of State and two of whom shall be local election officials, provided that none of the three appointees shall be a local election official for the county or municipality under review.
(c) The performance review board shall issue a written report of its findings to the State Election Board and the Secretary of State and the applicable local governing authority, which shall include such evaluations, judgments, and recommendations as it deems appropriate. The local governing authority shall reimburse the members of the performance review board for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties, including mileage, meals, lodging, and costs of materials.
(d) The findings of the report of the performance review board under subsection (c) of this Code section or of any audit or investigation performed by the State Election Board may be grounds for removal of a local election official pursuant to Code Section 21-2-33.2.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 12, eff. 3/25/2021.
