# § 21-2-264. Reimbursement of counties and municipalities for costs incurred pursuant to alteration of precinct boundaries

In all cases of the division, redivision, alteration, formation, or consolidation of precincts, the costs of the proceedings shall be paid by the county or municipal governing authority, as appropriate. There may be appropriated to the Secretary of State funds to be granted to counties or municipalities for purposes of meeting the requirements of Code Section 21-2-261.1. Upon the filing of a written request by the election officials of any qualified county or municipality, a qualified county or municipality shall be reimbursed for all reasonable expenses incurred by such county or municipality which are directly related to the redrawing of voting precinct boundaries, verification of voting precinct residency, notification of voter precinct and polling place changes, and compilation and preparation of the electors list as necessitated by Code Section 21-2-261.1; provided, however, that such reimbursement of costs shall not exceed 25¢ per registered voter whose name appeared on such county's or municipality's electors list as of January 1, 1982. Any qualified county or municipality seeking reimbursement of such costs shall present an itemized description of such costs to the Secretary of State. If the Secretary of State, after a review of the report of such costs incurred by a county or municipality, shall find that all or portions of such costs were reasonable and were directly related to the preparation of such descriptions and lists, he or she shall approve all of those parts of the costs deemed reasonable and shall reimburse the counties or municipalities for such expenses. Any state funds necessary to carry out the provisions of this Code section shall come only from those funds appropriated to the Secretary of State specifically for the purpose of implementing the provisions of Code Section 21-2-261.1. If such funds are not sufficient to bear completely the cost of fully implementing the provisions of Code Section 21-2-261.1, payment to the counties or municipalities seeking assistance shall be made on a pro rata basis subject to the availability of appropriated funds.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 452,§ 1, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 30, eff. 7/1/2005.
