# § 21-2-236. Periods of retention of registration cards, applications, and records of list maintenance activities; rules and regulations regarding safekeeping and maintenance of electronic records

(a) The voter registration cards of electors whose names appear on either the official list of electors or the list of inactive electors shall be retained on file as long as the elector remains on such lists and for a period of two years following the removal from the lists; provided, however, that an original voter registration card may be destroyed if an image of the face of the card is stored electronically.
(b) The registration applications of persons whose applications were rejected and all related material and records, or electronic facsimiles thereof, shall be retained on file for a period of two years after the date of the rejection.
(c) All records concerning list maintenance activities under Code Sections 21-2-233 and 21-2-234 shall be maintained for a period of two years and shall be available for public inspection and copying, except to the extent that such records relate to a declination to register to vote or to the identity of a voter registration agency through which any particular elector is registered. Such records shall contain the name and address of all electors to whom confirmation notices are sent and information concerning whether each such elector has responded to such notice.
(d) The State Election Board shall adopt rules and regulations regarding the safekeeping and maintenance of electronic records of voter registration records maintained under this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 21, eff. 7/1/2012.
