# § 21-2-71. Payment by county or municipality of superintendent's expenses; study and report on acceptance and equitable distribution of donations

(a) The governing authority of each county or municipality shall appropriate annually and from time to time, to the superintendent of such county or municipality, the funds that it shall deem necessary for the conduct of primaries and elections in such county or municipality and for the performance of his or her other duties under this chapter, including:
  (1) Compensation of the poll officers, custodians, and other assistants and employees provided for in this chapter;
  (2) Expenditures and contracts for expenditures by the superintendent for polling places;
  (3) Purchase or printing, under contracts made by the superintendent, of all ballots and other election supplies required by this chapter, or which the superintendent shall consider necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter;
  (4) Maintenance of all voting equipment required by this chapter, or which the superintendent shall consider necessary to carry out this chapter; and
  (5) All other expenses arising out of the performance of his or her duties under this chapter.
(b) No superintendent, county, or municipality shall take or accept any grants or gifts for purposes of administering this chapter from any source other than the State of Georgia or the federal government.
(c) The State Election Board shall study and report to the General Assembly a proposed method for accepting donations intended to facilitate the administration of elections and a method for an equitable distribution of such donations state wide by October 1, 2021.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 273,§ 4, eff. 5/3/2023.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 9, eff. 3/25/2021.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 7, eff. 7/1/2003.
