# § 21-2-480. Caption for ballots; party designations; form and arrangement

(a) At the top of each ballot for an election in a precinct using optical scanning voting equipment shall be printed in prominent type the words "OFFICIAL BALLOT," followed by the name and designation of the precinct for which it is prepared and the name and date of the election.
(b) Immediately under this caption on a ballot presenting the names of candidates for election to office, the following directions shall be printed, insofar as the same may be appropriate for the election involved:
  (1) Optical scanners using ovals or squares. To vote blacken the oval or square (o []) next to the candidate of your choice. To vote for a person whose name is not on the ballot, manually write his or her name in the write-in section and blacken the oval or square next to the write-in section. If you spoil your ballot, do not erase, but ask for a new ballot. Use only the pen or pencil provided.
  (2) Optical scanners using arrows. To vote, complete the arrow ([ARROW]) to the right of the name of the candidate for whom you wish to vote. To vote for a person whose name is not on the ballot, manually write his or her name in the write-in space provided and complete the arrow. If you spoil your ballot, do not erase, but ask for a new ballot. Use only the pen or pencil provided.
  (3) Marks made in violation of these directions shall be disregarded in the counting of the votes cast. The names of the persons inserted on the ballot by the elector shall be manually written only within the write-in section and the insertion of such names outside such section or by the use of a sticker, paster, stamp, or other printed or written matter is prohibited.
(c) The ballot for each candidate or group of candidates nominated by a party or body shall contain the name or designation of the party or body.
(d) The titles of offices may be arranged horizontally with the names of candidates for an office arranged transversely under the title of the office. The incumbency of a candidate seeking election for the public office he or she then holds shall be indicated on the ballot.
(e) The form and arrangement of ballots shall be prepared by the superintendent.
(f) Unless a candidate has filed with his or her nominating petition a certificate from a political party or body attesting that such candidate is the nominee of such party or body by virtue of having been nominated in a duly constituted party or body convention, the candidate's name shall appear on the ballot as an independent.
(g) When presidential electors are to be elected, the ballot shall not list the individual names of the candidates for presidential electors but shall list the names of each political party and body and the names of the political party or body candidates for the office of President and Vice President. The individual names or the nominees of each political party or body for such offices shall be posted at each polling place with the sample ballots required by subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-375 arranged alphabetically under the names of the candidates of the party or body for President and Vice President of the United States. A vote for the candidates for President and Vice President of a political party or body shall be deemed to be a vote for each of the candidates for presidential electors of such political party or body.
(h) When proposed constitutional amendments or other questions are submitted to a vote of the electors, each amendment or other question so submitted may be printed upon the ballot below the groups of candidates for the various offices. Proposed constitutional amendments so submitted shall be printed in the order determined by the Constitutional Amendments Publication Board and in brief form as directed by the General Assembly or, in the event of a failure to so direct, the form shall be determined by the Secretary of State and shall include the short title or heading provided for in subsection (c) of Code Section 50-12-101. Unless otherwise provided by law, any other state-wide questions or questions to be presented to the electors of more than one county so submitted shall be printed in brief form as directed by the General Assembly or, in the event of a failure to so direct, the form shall be determined by the Secretary of State and shall include a short title or heading in bold face at the beginning of each such question on the ballot; and any local questions so submitted shall be printed in brief form as directed by the General Assembly or, in the event of a failure to so direct, the form shall be determined by the superintendent. Next to the question there shall be placed the words "YES" and "NO" together with appropriate ovals or squares or broken arrows to be marked.
(i) The ballots shall vary in form only as the names of precincts, offices, candidates, or this chapter may require.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 38A, eff. 3/25/2021.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 34, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 52, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 166.
