# § 21-2-566. Interference with primaries and elections generally

(1) Willfully prevents or attempts to prevent any poll officer from holding any primary or election under this chapter;
(2) Uses or threatens violence in a manner that would prevent a reasonable poll officer, election official, or poll watcher or actually prevents a poll officer, election official, or poll watcher, as provided for by Code Section 21-2-408, from the execution of his or her duties or materially interrupts or improperly and materially interferes with the execution of a poll officer, election official, or poll watcher's, as provided for by Code Section 21-2-408, duties;
(3) Willfully blocks or attempts to block the avenue to the door of any polling place;
(4) Uses or threatens violence in a manner that would prevent a reasonable elector from voting or actually prevents any elector from voting;
(5) Willfully prepares or presents to any poll officer a fraudulent voter's certificate not signed by the elector whose certificate it purports to be;
(6) Knowingly deposits fraudulent ballots in the ballot box;
(7) Knowingly registers fraudulent votes upon any voting machine; or
(8) Willfully tampers with any electors list, voter's certificate, numbered list of voters, ballot box, voting machine, direct recording electronic (DRE) equipment, electronic ballot marker, or tabulating machine shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years or to pay a fine not to exceed $100,000.00, or both.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 599,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 24,§ 44, eff. 4/2/2019.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 706,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 259,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 61, eff. 7/1/2003.
