# § 21-2-221.2. Voter registration application for electronic voter registration

(a) A person who is qualified to register to vote in this state and who has a valid Georgia driver's license or identification card may submit a voter registration application on the Internet website of the Secretary of State. The Secretary of State shall, in conjunction with the Department of Driver Services, design and implement a system to allow for such electronic voter registration.
(b) An application submitted pursuant to this Code section shall contain:
  (1) The applicant's name and residence address;
  (2) The applicant's driver's license or identification card number;
  (3) The applicant's date of birth;
  (4) An affirmation by the applicant that the applicant is a citizen of the State of Georgia and of the United States;
  (5) An affirmation by the applicant that the information provided is truthful and that the applicant is eligible to vote in the State of Georgia;
  (6) An assent by the applicant to the use of his or her signature from his or her driver's license or identification card; and
  (7) Such other information the Secretary of State deems necessary to establish the identity of the applicant.
(c) Upon the submission of an application through the website pursuant to this Code section, the software used by the Secretary of State for processing applications through the website shall provide for immediate verification of all of the following:
  (1) That the applicant has a valid Georgia driver's license or identification card and that the number for that driver's license or identification card provided by the applicant matches the number for the applicant's driver's license or identification card that is on file with the Department of Driver Services;
  (2) That the date of birth provided by the applicant matches the date of birth that is on file with the Department of Driver Services; and
  (3) That the applicant is a citizen of the State of Georgia and of the United States and that the information provided by the applicant matches the information on file with the Department of Driver Services. If any of these items do not match or if the application is incomplete, the application shall be void and shall be rejected and the applicant shall be notified of such rejection either electronically or by mail within five days after such application is rejected.
(d) If all of the items enumerated in subsection (c) of this Code section are verified, the Secretary of State shall obtain an electronic copy of the applicant's signature from the applicant's driver's license or identification card on file with the Department of Driver Services. The application shall then be processed in the same manner as applications under Code Section 21-2-221. Except as otherwise provided by this Code section, the application shall be deemed to have been made as of the date that the information was provided by the applicant through the Internet website.
(e) The matching of information pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section shall satisfy the requirements of subsection (g) of Code Section 21-2-216.
(f) The Secretary of State shall employ security measures to ensure the accuracy and integrity of voter registration applications submitted electronically pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2012.
