# § 21-2-231. Identification of convicted felons, noncitizens, persons declared mentally incompetent, and deceased persons and process for removal of such persons from list of electors; inactive voter list

(a) Unless otherwise notified by the Secretary of State, the Georgia Crime Information Center shall, on or before the tenth day of each month, prepare and transmit to the Secretary of State and The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia a complete list of all persons, including dates of birth, social security numbers, and other information as prescribed by the Secretary of State or The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia, who were convicted of a felony in this state since the preceding reporting period. The Secretary of State or The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia may, by agreement with the commissioner of corrections and the commissioner of community supervision, obtain criminal information relating to the conviction, sentencing, and completion of sentencing requirements of felonies. Additionally, the Secretary of State and The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia shall be authorized to obtain such criminal information relating to Georgia electors convicted of a felony in another state, if such information is available.
(a.1) The clerk of the superior court of each county shall, on or before the tenth day of each month, prepare and transmit to the Secretary of State, in a format prescribed by the Secretary of State, a complete list of all persons, including addresses, ages, and other identifying information as prescribed by the Secretary of State, who identify themselves as not being citizens of the United States during their qualification to serve as a juror during the preceding calendar month in that county.
(b) The judge of the probate court of each county shall, on or before the tenth day of each month, prepare and transmit to the Secretary of State, in a format prescribed by the Secretary of State, a complete list of all persons, including addresses, ages, and other identifying information as prescribed by the Secretary of State, who were declared mentally incompetent during the preceding calendar month in the county and whose voting rights were removed.
(c)
  (1) Upon receipt of the lists described in subsections (a.1) and (b) of this Code section, the Secretary of State shall transmit the names of such persons whose names appear on the list of electors to the appropriate county board of registrars who shall remove all such names from the list of electors and shall mail a notice of such action and the reason therefor to the last known address of such persons by first-class mail.
  (2) Upon receipt of the list described in subsection (a) of this Code section and the lists of persons convicted of felonies in federal courts received pursuant to 52 U.S.C. Section 20507(g), the Secretary of State shall transmit the names of such persons whose names appear on the lists of electors to the appropriate county board of registrars who shall mail a notice to the last known address of each such person by first-class mail, stating that the board of registrars has received information that such person has been convicted of a felony and will be removed from the list of electors 30 days after the date of the notice unless such person requests a hearing before the board of registrars on such removal.
(d) Unless otherwise notified by the Secretary of State, the local registrar of vital statistics of each county shall, on or before the tenth day of each month, prepare and transmit to the Secretary of State, in a format prescribed by the Secretary of State, a complete list of all persons, including addresses, ages, and other identifying information as prescribed by the Secretary of State, who died during the preceding calendar month in the county. The Secretary of State may, by agreement with the commissioner of public health, obtain such information from the state registrar of vital statistics. Additionally, the Secretary of State is authorized to obtain such lists of deceased Georgia electors, if possible, from other states.
(e) Upon receipt of the lists described in subsection (d) of this Code section, the Secretary of State or his or her designated agent shall remove all such names of deceased persons from the list of electors and shall notify the registrar in the county where the deceased person was domiciled at the time of his or her death.
(e.1) County registrars may obtain information about persons who died from obituaries published by local newspapers, death certificates, verifiable knowledge of the death, and information provided in writing and signed by a family member or members of the deceased person. County registrars shall determine if such deceased person's name appears on the list of electors and, if so, shall remove such name from the list of electors and shall send by first class mail to the mailing address shown on the elector's voter registration records a notice of such action and the reason therefor.
(f) County registrars shall initiate appropriate action regarding the right of an elector to remain on the list of qualified registered voters within 60 days after receipt of the information described in this Code section. Failure to take such action may subject the registrars or the county governing authority for whom the registrars are acting to a fine by the State Election Board.
(g) The Secretary of State shall provide to The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia not later than the last day of each month all information enumerated in subsections (b) through (d) of this Code section and Code Section 21-2-232 and a list of voters who have failed to vote and inactive voters, as identified pursuant to Code Sections 21-2-234 and 21-2-235. Such data shall only be used by the council, the council's vendors, superior court clerks, and jury clerks for maintenance of state-wide master jury lists and county master jury lists. Such data shall be provided to the council or its vendors in the electronic format required by the council for such purposes.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 24,§ 9, eff. 4/2/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-52, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 578,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 19, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-5, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 50,§ 1-65, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 86,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 706,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 28, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 166, § 14, eff. 7/1/2001.
