# § 21-2-111. Establishment of state and county executive committees; membership and officers; duties; applicability of chapter to persons seeking party office in a primary

(a) Each political party shall establish and maintain a state executive committee exercising state-wide jurisdiction and control over party affairs and a county executive committee in each county in which it holds a primary, exercising county-wide jurisdiction and control over party affairs. A party may establish and maintain such other committees as it may from time to time deem advisable. The membership of such committees shall be selected in the manner determined by the state executive committee. Each committee shall be presided over by a chairperson and shall have a secretary and such other officers as deemed advisable, and a list of all such committees shall be filed with the appropriate election official for the state or county. The state executive committee shall have the same power over municipal party executive committees as it has over county party executive committees.
(b) The state executive committee of each political party shall formulate, adopt, and promulgate rules and regulations, consistent with law, governing the conduct of conventions and other party affairs. No such rule and regulation shall be effective until copies thereof, certified by the chairperson, have been filed with the Secretary of State.
(c) The respective county executive committees of each political party shall formulate, adopt, and promulgate rules and regulations, consistent with law and the rules and regulations of the state executive committee, governing the conduct of conventions and other party affairs. No such rule and regulation shall be effective until copies thereof, certified by the chairperson, have been filed with the superintendent of the county.
(d) Any person seeking party office in a primary shall be governed by this chapter relating to a person seeking party nomination in a primary insofar as such application is practicable.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 165, § 6, eff. 7/1/2001.
