# § 21-2-283.1. Ballot proof check and review procedures

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "ballot proof" means a draft version of a proposed official ballot that is reviewed by a superintendent or candidate to ensure the accuracy of the information contained on the final official ballot used in an election.
(b) In any primary, special primary, election, or special election occurring after January 1, 2025, prior to the printing of the final official ballots or the final programming of the display of the official ballot on electronic ballot markers pursuant to Code Section 21-2-379.25, the superintendent shall check the ballot proof to ensure the accuracy of the official ballot by verifying that:
  (1) The ballots for each precinct contain the correct contests for the voters in that precinct and no other contests;
  (2) The ballots for each precinct contain the correct ballot questions for the voters in that precinct and no other questions; and
  (3) The name, political party or political body designation, incumbency status, and other identifying information for each candidate appearing on such ballots are properly displayed.
(c) After the superintendent has completed the ballot review and proofing procedures provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section, and has made any needed corrections, but before the ballots have been approved and sent to print or for final programming pursuant to Code Section 21-2-379.25, the superintendent shall make available the final set of approved ballot proofs, clearly marked as ballot proofs, to any candidate appearing on the ballot, or such candidate's agent, using at least one of the following procedures:
  (1) By email, if the candidate has provided an email address at the time of qualifying; or
  (2) By making physical copies available for review at the office of the superintendent during normal business hours. The ballot proof review procedures to be used in an election are at the sole discretion of the superintendent.
(d) Candidates appearing on the ballot proof provided for by subsection (c) of this Code section shall have 24 hours from the time that the superintendent makes ballot proofs available for review to verify that the candidate's name, other identifying information such as party or incumbency, and other relevant information are properly displayed on the ballot and to request changes to be made by the superintendent.
(e)
  (1) In the event that a candidate requests a change to a ballot proof pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section, the superintendent, at its sole discretion, may make such requested change if it determines that the requested change will ensure the accuracy of the information displayed on the ballot.
  (2) In the event that the superintendent makes a change to a ballot proof pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, and if time permits, as determined in the sole discretion of the superintendent, the superintendent may provide new ballot proofs to a candidate or candidates for review using the same procedures as provided for in subsection (c) of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 599,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
