# § 21-2-133. Giving notice of intent of write-in candidacy; filing of affidavit; limitations on candidacy; certification of candidates

(a) No person elected on a write-in vote shall be eligible to hold office unless notice of his or her intention of candidacy was filed and published no earlier than January 1 and no later than the Tuesday after the first Monday in September prior to the election for county, state, and federal elections; no later than seven days after the close of the qualifying period for nonpartisan elections in the case of nonpartisan elections for state or county offices; no later than seven days after the close of the municipal qualifying period for municipal elections in the case of a general election; or no later than seven days after the close of the special election qualifying period for a special election by the person to be a write-in candidate or by some other person or group of persons qualified to vote in the subject election, as follows:
  (1) In a state general or special election, notice shall be filed with the Secretary of State and published in a newspaper of general circulation in the state;
  (2) In a general or special election of county officers, notice shall be filed with the superintendent of elections in the county in which he or she is to be a candidate and published in the official organ of the same county; or
  (3) In a municipal general or special election, notice shall be filed with the superintendent and published in the official gazette of the municipality holding the election. In the event that such intention of candidacy is filed and published by a person or group of persons other than the candidate, such person or group of persons shall also file a written, notarized authorization by the candidate for such filing and publication.
(b) In addition to the requirements contained in subsection (a) of this Code section, the person or persons giving notice of intention of candidacy for a write-in candidate shall also file, with the appropriate official specified in paragraph (1), (2), or (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section, a copy of the notice as published with an affidavit stating that the notice has been published and including the name of the newspaper and the date of publication, not later than the fifth day after the deadline for filing and publishing such notice. The affidavit may be made by the person giving notice of intention of candidacy or by the publisher of the newspaper in which the notice was published or by an employee of the newspaper designated by the publisher.
(c) No person shall be eligible as a write-in candidate in a special or general primary, a special or general primary runoff, or in a special or general election runoff.
(d) No person shall be eligible as a write-in candidate in a general or special election if such person was a candidate for nomination or election to the same office in the immediately preceding primary.
(e)
  (1) The Secretary of State shall certify and transmit to the election superintendent of each county affected within five days following the deadline for the submission by write-in candidates of the notice and documentation required by this Code section to be a write-in candidate in a general or special election the names of all persons who have filed notices of intention to be write-in candidates with the Secretary of State for such general or special election.
  (2) The county election superintendent shall certify within five days following the deadline for the submission by write-in candidates for county offices of the notice and documentation required by this Code section to be a write-in candidate in a general or special election the names of all persons who have filed notices of intention to be write-in candidates with the county election superintendent for county offices for such general or special election.
  (3) The municipal election superintendent shall certify within five days following the deadline for the submission by write-in candidates for municipal offices of the notice and documentation required by this Code section to be a write-in candidate in a general or special election the names of all persons who have filed notices of intention to be write-in candidates with the municipal election superintendent for municipal offices for such general or special election.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 250,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 239,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 463, § 1, eff. 4/18/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 164, §5, eff. 4/18/2001.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 166, §6, eff. 7/1/2001.
Amended by 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX10, § 3, eff. 9/26/2001.
