# § 21-2-568. Entry into voting compartment or booth while another voting; interfering with elector; inducing elector to reveal or revealing elector's vote; influencing voter while assisting

(a) Any person who knowingly:
  (1) Goes into the voting compartment or voting machine booth while another is voting or marks the ballot or registers the vote for another, except in strict accordance with this chapter;
  (2) Interferes with any elector marking his or her ballot or registering his or her vote;
  (3) Attempts to induce any elector to show how he or she marks or has marked his or her ballot;
  (4) Discloses to anyone how another elector voted, without said elector's consent, except when required to do so in any legal proceeding; or
  (5) Accepts an absentee ballot from an elector for delivery or return to the board of registrars except as authorized by subsection (a) of Code Section 21-2-385shall be guilty of a felony.
(b) Any person who, while giving lawful assistance to another, attempts to influence the vote of the elector he or she is assisting or marks a ballot or registers a vote in any other way than that requested by the voter he or she is assisting shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be sentenced to imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years or to pay a fine not to exceed $100,000.00, or both.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 47, eff. 3/25/2021.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 632,§ 27, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 706,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 259,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2007.
