# § 21-2-19. Conflict of interest for election officers, officials, and employees regarding providers of voting equipment goods and services

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Business" means any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual, trust, or other legal entity.
  (2) "Family" means spouse and dependents.
  (3) "Full-time" means 30 hours of work for the state per week for more than 26 weeks per calendar year.
  (4) "Part-time" means any amount of work other than full-time work.
  (5) "Substantial interest" means the direct or indirect ownership of more than 5 percent of the assets or stock of any business.
  (6) "Transact business" or "transact any business" means to sell or lease any personal property, real property, or services on behalf of oneself or on behalf of any third party as an agent, broker, dealer, or representative and to purchase surplus real or personal property on behalf of oneself or on behalf of any third party as an agent, broker, dealer, or representative.
(b) In addition to and notwithstanding any contrary provisions of Chapter 10 of Title 45, it shall be unlawful for any member of the State Board of Elections, the Secretary of State, a county or municipal superintendent or registrar, or any full-time, part-time, or contractual employee of such officer or official, for himself or herself or on behalf of any business, or for any business in which such officer, official, or employee or member of his or her family has a substantial interest to transact any business with a business that has contracted with the state, or any county or municipal government, to provide goods or services related to voting equipment or any other equipment related to the tabulation, auditing, processing, or scanning of ballots.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 697,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2024.
