# § 21-2-435. Procedure as to marking and depositing of ballots

(a) In precincts in which ballots are used, the elector, after receiving his or her ballot, shall retire to one of the voting compartments and draw the curtain or shut the screen or door and shall then prepare his or her ballot; provided, however, that an elector may, before entering the voting booth, ask for instructions concerning the manner of voting, and a poll officer shall give him or her such instructions; but no person giving an elector such instructions shall in any manner request, suggest, or seek to persuade or induce any such elector to vote any particular ticket or for any particular candidate or for or against any particular question. After giving such instructions and before the elector closes the booth or votes, the poll officer shall retire and the elector shall forthwith vote.
(b) At primaries, the elector shall prepare his or her ballot in the following manner: He or she shall vote for the candidates of his or her choice for nomination or election, according to the number of persons to be voted for by him or her, for each office, by making a cross (X) or check ([CHECKMARK]) mark in the square opposite the name of each candidate. No elector shall be permitted to cast a write-in ballot in a primary. A ballot upon which a voter has marked out or struck through the name of a candidate for whom the voter does not intend to cast his or her vote may be counted if the ballot clearly indicates that candidate for whom the voter desired to cast his or her vote.
(c) At elections, the elector shall prepare his or her ballot in the following manner:
  (1) He or she may vote for the candidates of his or her choice for each office to be filled according to the number of persons to be voted for by him or her for each office, by making a cross (X) or check ([CHECKMARK]) mark in the square opposite the name of the candidate;
  (2) He or she may write, in the blank space provided therefor, any name not already printed on the ballot, and such insertion shall count as a vote without the marking of a cross (X) or check ([CHECKMARK]) mark;
  (3) Reserved;
  (4) If he or she desires to vote for the presidential electors nominated by any party or body, he or she may make a cross (X) or check ([CHECKMARK]) mark in the appropriate square at the left of the names of the candidates for President and Vice President of such party or body;
  (5) In case of a question submitted to the vote of the electors, he or she may make a cross (X) or check ([CHECKMARK]) mark in the appropriate square opposite the answer which he or she desires to give.
(d) Before leaving the voting compartment, the elector shall fold his or her ballot, without displaying the markings thereon, in the same way it was folded when received by him or her; and he or she shall then leave the compartment and exhibit the number strip of the ballot to a poll officer who shall ascertain by an inspection of the number appearing thereon whether the ballot so exhibited to him or her is the same ballot which the elector received before entering the voting compartment. If it is the same, the poll officer shall direct the elector, without unfolding the ballot, to remove the perforated portion containing the number, and the elector shall immediately deposit the ballot in the ballot box. The number strip shall be deposited in the stub box provided for such purpose and the number strips shall be retained with the ballots and other stubs. Any ballot, other than one which has been challenged for cause under Code Section 21-2-230, deposited in a ballot box at any primary or election without having such number removed shall be void and shall not be counted.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 33, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX10, § 10, eff. 9/26/2001.
