# § 21-2-419. Validation of provisional ballots; reporting to Secretary of State

(a) A person shall cast a provisional ballot on the same type of ballot that is utilized by the county or municipality. Such provisional ballot shall be sealed in double envelopes as provided in Code Section 21-2-384 and shall be deposited by the person casting such ballot in a secure, sealed ballot box.
(b) At the earliest time possible after the casting of a provisional ballot, but no later than the day after the primary or election in which such provisional ballot was cast, the board of registrars of the county or municipality, as the case may be, shall be notified by the election superintendent that provisional ballots were cast in the primary or election and the registrars shall be provided with the documents completed by the person casting the provisional ballot as provided in Code Section 21-2-418. Provisional ballots shall be securely maintained by the election superintendent until a determination has been made concerning their status. The board of registrars shall immediately examine the information contained on such documents and make a good faith effort to determine whether the person casting the provisional ballot was entitled to vote in the primary or election. Such good faith effort shall include a review of all available voter registration documentation, including registration information made available by the electors themselves and documentation of modifications or alterations of registration data showing changes to an elector's registration status. Additional sources of information may include, but are not limited to, information from the Department of Driver Services, Department of Family and Children Services, Department of Natural Resources, public libraries, or any other agency of government including, but not limited to, other county election and registration offices.
(c)
  (1) If the registrars determine after the polls close, but not later than three days following the primary or election, that the person casting the provisional ballot timely registered to vote and was eligible and entitled to vote in the precinct in which he or she voted in such primary or election, the registrars shall notify the election superintendent and the provisional ballot shall be counted and included in the county's or municipality's certified election results.
  (2) If the registrars determine after the polls close, but not later than three days following the primary or election, that the person voting the provisional ballot timely registered and was eligible and entitled to vote in the primary or election but voted in the wrong precinct, then the board of registrars shall notify the election superintendent only if such person voted between the hours of 5:00 P.M. and the regular time for the closing of the polls on the day of the primary, election, or runoff and provided the sworn statement required by subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-418. The superintendent shall count such person's votes which were cast for candidates in those races for which the person was entitled to vote but shall not count the votes cast for candidates in those races in which such person was not entitled to vote. The superintendent shall order the proper election official at the tabulating center or precinct to prepare an accurate duplicate ballot containing only those votes cast by such person in those races in which such person was entitled to vote for processing at the tabulating center or precinct, which shall be verified in the presence of a witness. Such duplicate ballot shall be clearly labeled with the word "Duplicate," shall bear the designation of the polling place, and shall be given the same serial number as the original ballot. The original ballot shall be retained and the sworn statement required by subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-418 shall be transmitted to the Secretary of State with the certification documents required by paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of Code Section 21-2-497 and such statement shall be reviewed by the State Election Board.
  (3) If the registrars determine that the person casting the provisional ballot did not timely register to vote or was not eligible or entitled to vote in the precinct in which he or she voted in such primary or election or shall be unable to determine within three days following such primary or election whether such person timely registered to vote and was eligible and entitled to vote in such primary or election, the registrars shall so notify the election superintendent and such ballot shall not be counted. The election superintendent shall mark or otherwise document that such ballot was not counted and shall deliver and store such ballots with all other ballots and election materials as provided in Code Section 21-2-500.
(d)
  (1) At the earliest time possible after a determination is made regarding a provisional ballot, the board of registrars shall notify in writing those persons whose provisional ballots were not counted that their ballots were not counted because of the inability of the registrars to verify that the persons timely registered to vote or other proper reason. The registrars shall process the official voter registration form completed by such persons pursuant to Code Section 21-2-418 and shall add such persons to the electors list if found qualified.
  (2) At the earliest time possible after a determination is made regarding a provisional ballot, the board of registrars shall notify in writing those electors who voted in the wrong precinct and whose votes were partially counted of their correct precinct.
(e) The board of registrars shall complete a report in a form designated by the Secretary of State indicating the number of provisional ballots cast and counted in the primary or election.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 35, eff. 3/25/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 24,§ 38, eff. 4/2/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 632,§ 23, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 706,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 10, § 1, eff. 5/14/2003.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 769, § 1-6, eff. 10/1/2002.
