# § 21-2-135. Designation of specific office sought where office has multiple officeholders with same title

(a)
  (1) In the case of a public office having multiple officeholders with the same title, each candidate, including write-in candidates, shall designate the specific office he or she is seeking, name the person such candidate is seeking to succeed, and give such other appropriate designation as may be required by the Secretary of State or election superintendent each time such candidate qualifies with his or her party in the case of a primary, files a notice of candidacy in the case of an election, or files a notice of candidacy as a write-in candidate. The designation of the specific office and the name of the person whom a candidate is seeking to succeed in the case of a public office having multiple officeholders shall be entered on the ballot and ballot labels in such manner that in the ensuing primary or election such candidate shall only oppose the other candidate or candidates, if any, who designated the same specific office and the same name.
  (2) In the case of a candidate, including a write-in candidate, seeking one of two or more municipal public offices, each having the same title and each being filled at the same election by the vote of the same electors, the applicable municipal charter or ordinance provisions shall govern whether such candidate shall designate the specific office he or she is seeking. If required to designate the specific office, the candidate shall name his or her incumbent or give other appropriate designation as specified in the charter or ordinance. Such designation shall be entered on the ballot and ballot labels in such manner that in the ensuing municipal primary or election such candidate shall only oppose the other candidate or candidates, if any, designating the same specific office.
(b) In the case of the office of judge of a state court, judge of a superior court, Judge of the Court of Appeals, or Justice of the Supreme Court, the name of the person such candidate is seeking to succeed and such other designation as may be required by the Secretary of State or election superintendent shall be included in the title of the office on the ballot in all nonpartisan elections.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 166, § 8, eff. 7/1/2001.
