# § 21-2-400. Duty of superintendent to obtain cards of instruction, blank forms of oaths, and other forms and supplies; preparation and distribution of sample or facsimile ballot labels

(a) Prior to each primary and election, the superintendent shall obtain from the Secretary of State a sufficient number of cards of instruction for guidance of electors. Such cards of instruction shall include such portions of this chapter as deemed necessary by the Secretary of State and shall be printed for the type of voting equipment or ballots used in the county or municipality. The superintendent shall also obtain from the Secretary of State a sufficient number of blank forms of oaths of poll officers, voter's certificates, voting rights posters, notices of penalties, oaths of assisted electors, numbered list of voters, tally sheets, return sheets, and such other forms and supplies required by this chapter, in each precinct of the county or municipality.
(b) As an aid to electors, sample ballots or ballot labels may be printed and published in any newspaper generally and regularly circulated within the county or municipality, so long as the facsimile is labeled "Sample Ballot" and is at least 25 percent larger or smaller than the official ballot. Reprints of such newspaper printings may be procured and distributed by any elector. Election officials may also prepare and distribute sample ballots or ballot labels or portions thereof, provided they are labeled "Sample Ballot" and are of a different color and at least 25 percent larger or smaller than the official ballot or ballot label.
(c) The superintendent shall prepare sample or facsimile ballots or ballot labels, as the case may be, for each general election which shall contain each question and the candidates who are offering for election for each office which will be voted upon in the county or municipality for distribution upon request to interested electors. Such sample or facsimile ballots or ballot labels shall comply with Code Section 21-2-575.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 240,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 56, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 42, eff. 7/1/2003.
