# § 21-2-233. Comparison of change of address information supplied by United States Postal Service with electors list; removal from list of electors; notice to electors

(a) The Secretary of State is authorized to cause at his or her discretion the official list of electors to be compared to the change of address information supplied by the United States Postal Service through its licensees periodically for the purpose of identifying those electors whose addresses have changed.
(b) If it appears from the change of address information supplied by the licensees of the United States Postal Service that an elector whose name appears on the official list of electors has moved to a different address in the county in which the elector is presently registered, the list of electors shall be changed to reflect the new address and the elector shall be sent a notice of the change by forwardable mail at the elector's old address with a postage prepaid, preaddressed return form by which the elector may verify or correct the address information. The registrars may also send a notice of the change by forwardable mail to the elector's new address with a postage prepaid, preaddressed return form by which the elector may verify or correct the address information.
(c) If it appears from the change of address information supplied by the licensees of the United States Postal Service that an elector whose name appears on the official list of electors has moved to a different address outside of the boundaries of the county or municipality in which the elector is presently registered, such elector shall be sent a confirmation notice as provided in Code Section 21-2-234 at the old address of the elector. The registrars may also send a confirmation notice to the elector's new address. If the elector confirms the change of address to an address outside of the State of Georgia, the elector's name shall be removed from the appropriate list of electors. If the elector confirms the change of address to an address outside of the boundaries of the county or municipality in which the elector is presently registered, but still within the State of Georgia, the elector's registration shall be transferred to the new county or municipality. The Secretary of State or the registrars shall forward the confirmation card to the registrars of the county in which the elector's new address is located and the registrars of the county of the new address shall update the voter registration list to reflect the change of address. If the elector responds to the notice and affirms that the elector has not moved, the elector shall remain on the list of electors at the elector's current address. If the elector fails to respond to the notice within 30 days after the date of the notice, the elector shall be transferred to the inactive list provided for in Code Section 21-2-235.
(d) Whenever an elector's name is removed from the list of electors by the county registrars because the elector has furnished in writing to the registrar a residence address that is located outside of the State of Georgia, the registrars shall notify the elector in writing at the elector's new address that the elector's name is being deleted from the list of electors.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall prevent the removal from the list of electors of an elector for ineligibility to vote.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 250,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 719,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 29, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 209, § 23, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 165.
