# § 21-2-212. County registrars; appointment; certification; term of service; vacancies; compensation and expenses of chief registrar, registrars, and other officers and employees; budget estimates

(a) Except in the case in which a county has a board of elections and registration, the judge of the superior court in each county or the senior judge in time of service in those counties having more than one judge shall appoint in accordance with this Code section, upon the recommendation of the grand jury of such county, not less than three nor more than five judicious, intelligent, and upright electors of such county as county registrars. The grand jury shall submit to the judge the names of a number of electors equal to twice the number of persons to be appointed and the appointment shall be made therefrom and shall be entered on the minutes of the court. When making such appointments when appropriate, the judge will designate one of the registrars as chief registrar who shall serve as such during such registrar's term of office, and such designation shall likewise be entered on the minutes of the court. It shall be the duty of the clerk of the superior court to certify the appointments and designation to the Secretary of State within 30 days after the appointments and designation, and commissions shall be issued as for county officers. When certifying such names to the Secretary of State, the clerk of the superior court shall also list the addresses of the registrars. Except in the case in which the local Act creating a county board of elections and registration specifically provides for the appointment and removal by another authority, such judge will have the right to remove one or more of such registrars at any time for cause after notice and hearing. In case of the death, resignation, or removal of a registrar, the judge shall appoint a successor who shall serve until the next grand jury convenes, at which time the grand jury shall submit to the judge the names of two judicious, intelligent, and upright electors of such county; and the judge shall make an appointment from said list, such successor to serve the unexpired term of such registrar's predecessor in office. In the event the grand jury is in session at the time of any such death, removal, or resignation, such grand jury shall immediately submit the names of said electors to the judge for such appointment. Each such appointment or change in designation shall be entered on the minutes of the court and certified as provided in this Code section.
(b)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, appointees under this article shall serve for a term of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified, except in the event of resignation or removal as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section. Their terms shall commence on July 1 and expire on June 30 four years thereafter.
  (2) The first new grand jury which convenes in each county in the year 2013 shall submit to the judge the list of names as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section. From this list, the judge shall appoint two registrars to serve two-year terms of office and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified and not more than three registrars to serve four-year terms of office and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Thereafter, the first new grand jury which convenes in each county in each odd-numbered year shall submit to the judge a list of names equal to twice the number of registrars whose terms are to expire that year. From this list, the judge shall appoint successors to the registrars whose terms are expiring that year who shall then serve terms of office of four years and until their respective successors are selected and qualified.
  (3) Such list of names shall be submitted to the judge, who shall appoint the registrars and designate the chief registrar, as needed, prior to June 30. No appointment for a full term shall be made prior to January 1 of the year in which the appointee is to take office. If no such grand jury is convened or, if convened but failed to recommend, the judge shall appoint the registrars without the necessity of any recommendation. In the event that a registrar holds over beyond the end of the registrar's term of office due to the failure to have a successor timely appointed and qualified, the successor shall be appointed to serve the remainder of the term of office and shall not receive a new four-year term of office.
(c) Reserved.
(d) The chief registrar shall be the chief administrative officer of the board of registrars and shall generally supervise and direct the administration of the affairs of the board of registrars. The chief registrar shall act as chairperson of the board of registrars and, as chief registrar, shall perform those functions normally devolving upon the chairperson. The board of registrars shall meet each month on a day selected by the chief registrar to transact the business of the board. The board shall also meet at other times as needed upon the call of the chief registrar or upon the request of two or more of the registrars. The chief registrar shall be compensated in an amount of not less than $61.00 per day for each day of service on the business of the board of registrars. The other registrars shall be compensated in an amount of not less than $48.00 per day for each day of service on the business of the board of registrars. In lieu of the per diem compensation provided for in this subsection, the chief registrar may be compensated in an amount not less than $272.00 per month and the other registrars in an amount not less than $242.00 per month. The per diem or monthly compensation, as the case may be, shall be fixed, subject to the limitations provided for in this subsection, by the governing authority of each county and shall be paid from county funds. The compensation of other officers and employees appointed and employed under this article shall be fixed by the board of registrars with the approval of the governing authority of each county and shall be paid from county funds.
(e) If, within 90 days of the end of the term or the creation of a vacancy for a county registrar, an appointment is not made in accordance with subsection (a) of this Code section, the governing authority of the county shall appoint the county registrars in lieu of the judge of the superior court. The appointments shall be entered on the minutes of the county governing authority. The county governing authority shall designate one of the registrars as chief registrar, who shall serve as such during such registrar's term of office. Such designation shall likewise be entered on the minutes of such governing authority. It shall be the duty of the county governing authority to certify the appointments and designation to the Secretary of State and the clerk of the superior court within 30 days after such appointments and designation. In certifying such names to the Secretary of State and the clerk of the superior court, the county governing authority shall also list the addresses of the registrars. Such registrars shall serve for the term and in the manner set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section. Any registrar shall have the right to resign at any time by submitting a resignation to the clerk of the superior court. In the event of the death, resignation, or removal of any registrar, such registrar's duties and authority as such shall terminate instantly. Successors shall be appointed as set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(f) The board of registrars of each county shall prepare annually a budget estimate in which it shall set forth an itemized list of its expenditures for the preceding two years and an itemized estimate of the amount of money necessary to be appropriated for the ensuing year and shall submit the same at the time and in the manner and form other county budget estimates are required to be filed. No board of registrars shall take or accept any grants or gifts for the purpose of administering this chapter from any source other than from the State of Georgia or the federal government.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 273,§ 5, eff. 5/3/2023.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 9,§ 14, eff. 3/25/2021.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 250,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 240,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 632,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 53,§ 22, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 291, § 15, eff. 1/1/2002.
