# § 46-2-25.2. Sixteen-mile toll-free telephone calling; modification of rate schedules; recovery of expenses or lost revenues by telephone companies; rate-making power of Public Service Commission not affected

(a) It is the goal of this Code section to provide for toll-free calling between two telephones where the central offices serving such telephones are within 16 miles of each other.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (e) of this Code section, on and after July 1, 1992, the Public Service Commission shall not approve any new rate schedule which authorizes a long-distance charge for calls between two telephones where the central offices serving such telephones are within 16 miles of each other.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (e) of this Code section, on and after July 1, 1992, rate schedules approved by the Public Service Commission prior to July 1, 1992, shall be amended so as to reduce by one-half the long-distance charge for calls between two telephones where the central offices serving such telephones are within 16 miles of each other.
(d) On or before July 1, 1993, the Public Service Commission shall conduct hearings and accept evidence and upon consideration of such evidence shall determine any further reductions in long-distance charges for calls between two telephones where the central offices serving such telephones are within 16 miles of each other. Such determination shall consider the availability of funds and other revenue sources to affected companies to offset the costs associated with such further reductions.
(e) All rate schedules approved pursuant to this Code section may be modified at the discretion of the Public Service Commission upon a good and sufficient showing of geographic, economic, or technological infeasibility by a telephone company.
(f) All rate schedules approved pursuant to this Code section shall take into account the following:
  (1) The reasonable cost of providing such service to customers of the telephone company throughout the entire service area of such telephone company and the increased value resulting from such expanded calling areas; and
  (2) The reasonable rate of return on investment authorized in the rate schedule approved by the Public Service Commission for such telephone company.
(g) Any telephone company seeking to recover any portion of its expenses or lost toll revenues resulting from the implementation of the 16 mile toll free calling plan contained in this Code section shall demonstrate its financial hardship to the Public Service Commission before such recovery shall be allowed. It shall be within the discretion of the Public Service Commission to determine the methodology and source of recovery for any such affected telephone company. In determining the method of offsetting the costs associated with the 16 mile plan, the Public Service Commission shall first utilize any available earnings at the telephone companies seeking assistance in excess of those authorized in their respective tariffs. Such methodology and source for offsetting costs shall include but not be limited to recovery from the Universal Service Fund as permitted under Code Section 50-5-200.
(h) Nothing in this Code section shall be interpreted as amending, modifying, or repealing Code Section 46-2-23, relating to the rate-making power of the Public Service Commission generally and special provisions concerning telecommunications companies.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 46, eff. 5/13/2004.
