# § 46-2-23. Rate-making power of commission generally; special provisions concerning telecommunications companies

(a) The commission shall have exclusive power to determine what are just and reasonable rates and charges to be made by any person, firm, or corporation subject to its jurisdiction.
(b) As to those telecommunications companies subject to the jurisdiction of the commission, the commission is not required to fix and determine specific rates, tariffs, or charges for the services offered by said telecommunications companies and in lieu thereof may on application of an interested party or on its own motion after public notice and hearing:
  (1) Totally deregulate a service;
  (2) Totally eliminate any tariffs on a service;
  (3) Eliminate tariff rates for a service but retain tariffs for service standards and requirements; or
  (4) Eliminate tariff rates for a service but require that notice of any rate changes be provided to the commission.
(c) In determining what actions, if any, are to be taken on applications under subsection (b) of this Code section, the commission shall conduct hearings at which it shall consider the following factors:
  (1) The extent to which competing telecommunications services are available from competitive providers in the relevant geographic market;
  (2) The ability of competitive providers to make functionally equivalent or substitute services readily available;
  (3) The number and size of competitive providers of service;
  (4) The overall impact of the proposed regulatory change on the continued availability of existing services at just and reasonable rates;
  (5) The impact of the proposed regulatory change upon efforts to promote universal availability of basic telecommunications services at affordable rates and to permit telecommunications companies subject to the jurisdiction of the commission to respond to competitive thrusts; and
  (6) Such other factors as the commission may determine are in the public interest.
(d) Nothing in this Code section shall authorize the application of subsection (b) of this Code section to any service unless functionally equivalent or substitute services are readily available from competitive providers in the relevant geographic market. This finding must be made on the record after public hearing.
(e) Any telecommunications service deregulated or detariffed under this Code section may be reregulated or resubjected to tariffing by the commission if the commission finds, through a proceeding initiated on its own or upon application by an interested party, that such reregulation or retariffing is in the public interest.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall be interpreted as requiring the commission to alter, amend, or repeal any rule or regulation which relates to any telecommunications company and which has been adopted by the commission or which is under consideration for adoption by the commission as of April 14, 1988.
(g) No telecommunications company may use current revenues earned or expenses incurred in conjunction with services subject to regulation to subsidize services which are not regulated or tariffed. The commission may adopt procedural rules as necessary to implement this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 700,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 74,§ 15, eff. 4/30/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 74,§ 12, eff. 4/30/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 46, eff. 4/18/2002.
