# § 46-2-20. Jurisdiction of commission generally; powers and duties of commission generally

(a) Except as otherwise provided by law, the commission shall have the general supervision of all common carriers, express companies, railroad or street railroad companies, dock or wharfage companies, terminal or terminal station companies, telephone companies, gas or electric light and power companies, and persons or private companies who operate rapid rail passenger service lines within this state; provided, however, that nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to extend the jurisdiction of the commission to include the operations of the Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority created in an Act approved March 10, 1965 (Ga. L. 1965, p. 2243), as amended.
(b) The commission may hear complaints; in addition, it is also authorized to perform the duties imposed upon it of its own initiative.
(c) The commission may, either by general rules or by special orders in particular cases, require all companies under its supervision to establish and maintain such public services and facilities as may be reasonable and just.
(d) The commission may require common carriers and persons or private companies who operate rapid rail passenger service lines to publish their schedules in newspapers of towns through which their lines extend, in such manner as may be reasonable and as the public convenience demands.
(e) The commission shall have authority to examine the affairs of all companies under its supervision and to keep informed as to their general condition, their capitalization, their franchises, and the manner in which the lines owned, leased, or controlled by them are managed, conducted, and operated, not only with respect to the adequacy, security, and accommodation afforded by their service to the public and their employees but also with reference to their compliance with all laws, orders of the commission, and charter requirements.
(f) The commission shall have the power and authority, whenever it deems advisable, to prescribe, establish, and order a uniform system of accounts to be used by railroads and other companies over which it has jurisdiction, the same to be, as far as practicable, in conformity with the system of accounts prescribed by the Interstate Commerce Commission. The commission shall also have the power and authority to examine all books, contracts, records, papers, and documents of any person subject to its supervision and to compel the production thereof.
(g) The commission shall have the power, through any of its members, at its discretion, to make personal visits to the offices and places of business of the companies under its supervision for the purpose of examination. Any Commissioner making a personal visit pursuant to this subsection shall have full power and authority to examine the agents and employees of any such company, under oath or otherwise, in order to procure information deemed by the Commissioner necessary to the work of the commission or of value to the public.
(h) Nothing in this Code section shall be so construed as to repeal or abrogate any existing law or rule of the commission as to notice or hearings to be accorded to any person interested in the rates fixed by, or in the orders, rules, or regulations promulgated by, the commission before the same are issued. Neither shall anything in this Code section repeal the law of this state as to notice by publication of a change in rates.
(i) The commission shall have the power and authority to prescribe rules and regulations for the safe installation and safe operation of all natural gas transmission and distribution facilities within this state, including, without limitation, all natural gas transmission and distribution facilities which are owned and operated by municipalities within this state.
(j) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the authority and jurisdiction of the commission shall not extend to persons or companies who are engaged in the retail sale of natural gas to the public for use as a fuel in motor vehicles and who are not otherwise subject to the authority and jurisdiction of the commission.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 700,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
