# § 46-2-28. Procedure for issuance of stocks, bonds, notes, or other debt by companies under commission's jurisdiction; exemptions

(a) Each of the companies over which the commission has jurisdiction shall be required to furnish the commission a list of any stocks and bonds the issuance of which is contemplated.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any of such companies to issue stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidences of debt, payable more than 12 months after the date of issuance, except upon the approval of the commission, and then only when necessary and for such amount as may be reasonably required for the acquisition of property; the construction and equipment of power plants and carsheds; the completion, extension, or improvement of its facilities or properties; the improvement or maintenance of its service; the discharge or lawful refunding of its obligations; or other lawful corporate purposes falling within the spirit of this Code section.
(c) The decision of the commission shall be final as to the validity of the issuance of stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidences of debt by companies under the jurisdiction of the commission.
(d) Before issuing stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidence of debt, a company under the jurisdiction of the commission shall secure an order from the commission authorizing such issue, the amount thereof, and the purpose and use for which the issue is authorized. For the purpose of enabling it to determine whether such order should be issued, the commission shall make such inquiry or investigation, hold such hearings, and examine such witnesses, books, papers, documents, or contracts as it may deem advisable or necessary.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code section, a company under the jurisdiction of the commission may issue notes or other evidences of debt for proper and lawful corporate purposes, payable at periods of not more than 12 months from the date of issuance, without the consent of the commission, provided that no such notes or other evidences of debt shall, in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, be refunded by any issue of stocks, bonds, or other evidences of debt running for more than 12 months without the consent of the commission.
(f) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code section, motor common carriers and motor contract carriers regulated under Chapter 7 of this title shall be exempt from the provisions of this Code section.
(g) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code section or any other provision of law, local exchange companies as defined in paragraph (10) of Code Section 46-5-162 under the commission's jurisdiction shall be exempt from the provisions of this Code section if the stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidences of debt are issued as part of a debt transaction that is an interstate transaction, as evidenced by the following:
  (1) The local exchange company is a wholly owned subsidiary of a parent company headquartered or domiciled outside of this state;
  (2) The debt transaction is by and between the parent company, the primary obligor, and a national bank or other lending or financial institution licensed or authorized to enter into such debt transaction by any state or federal agency; and
  (3) The local exchange company is issuing stocks, bonds, notes, or other evidences of debt for the purpose of providing collateral or other security to the lending or financial institution in order to accommodate the debt transaction of a parent company or other entity.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 46, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 191,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2011.
