# § 46-2-1. Election of Commissioners; terms of office

(a) The Georgia Public Service Commission shall consist of five members to be elected as provided in this Code section. Members elected to the commission shall be required to be residents of one of five Public Service Commission Districts as hereafter provided, but each member of the commission shall be elected state wide by the qualified voters of this state who are entitled to vote for members of the General Assembly. Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, the election shall be held under the same rules and regulations as apply to the election of Governor. The Commissioners shall give their entire time to the duties of their offices. Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, the Commissioners shall be elected at the general election next preceding the expiration of the terms of office of the respective incumbents, and their terms of office shall be six years and shall expire on December 31.
(b) In order to be elected as a member of the commission from a Public Service Commission District, a person shall have resided in that district for at least 12 months prior to election thereto. A person elected as a member of the commission from a Public Service Commission District by the voters of Georgia shall continue to reside in that district during the person's term of office, or that office shall thereupon become vacant.
(c) For the purpose of electing the members of the Public Service Commission, this state shall be divided into five Public Service Commission Districts described as follows: District 001Appling CountyAtkinson CountyBacon CountyBaker CountyBaldwin CountyBen Hill CountyBerrien CountyBibb CountyBleckley CountyBrantley CountyBrooks CountyBryan CountyCalhoun CountyCamden CountyCharlton CountyChattahoochee CountyClay CountyClinch CountyCoffee CountyColquitt CountyCook CountyCrawford CountyCrisp CountyDecatur CountyDodge CountyDooly CountyDougherty CountyEarly CountyEchols CountyEvans CountyGlynn CountyGrady CountyHarris CountyHouston CountyIrwin CountyJeff Davis CountyJohnson CountyJones CountyLanier CountyLaurens CountyLee CountyLiberty CountyLong CountyLowndes CountyMacon CountyMarion CountyMcIntosh CountyMiller CountyMitchell CountyMonroe CountyMontgomery CountyMuscogee CountyPeach CountyPierce CountyPulaski CountyQuitman CountyRandolph CountySchley CountySeminole CountyStewart CountySumter CountyTalbot CountyTattnall CountyTaylor CountyTelfair CountyTerrell CountyThomas CountyTift CountyToombs CountyTreutlen CountyTurner CountyTwiggs CountyWare CountyWayne CountyWebster CountyWheeler CountyWilcox CountyWilkinson CountyWorth CountyDistrict 002Banks CountyBarrow CountyBulloch CountyBurke CountyButts CountyCandler CountyChatham CountyClarke CountyColumbia CountyEffingham CountyElbert CountyEmanuel CountyGlascock CountyGreene CountyHancock CountyHart CountyHenry CountyJackson CountyJasper CountyJefferson CountyJenkins CountyLincoln CountyMadison CountyMcDuffie CountyMorgan CountyNewton CountyOconee CountyOglethorpe CountyPutnam CountyRichmond CountyRockdale CountyScreven CountySpalding CountyTaliaferro CountyWalton CountyWarren CountyWashington CountyWilkes CountyDistrict 003Clayton CountyDeKalb CountyFulton CountyDistrict 004Cherokee CountyDawson CountyFannin CountyForsyth CountyFranklin CountyGilmer CountyGwinnett CountyHabersham CountyHall CountyLumpkin CountyMurray CountyPickens CountyRabun CountyStephens CountyTowns CountyUnion CountyWhite CountyWhitfield CountyDistrict 005Bartow CountyCarroll CountyCatoosa CountyChattooga CountyCobb CountyCoweta CountyDade CountyDouglas CountyFayette CountyFloyd CountyGordon CountyHaralson CountyHeard CountyLamar CountyMeriwether CountyPaulding CountyPike CountyPolk CountyTroup CountyUpson CountyWalker County
(d)
  (1) Those members of the commission elected at the 2020 general election, and any person appointed to fill a vacancy in such office, and those members of the commission serving in seats that were scheduled to be filled in either the 2022 or 2024 general election, shall serve the terms provided for in Code Section 46-2-1.1 and until their successors are elected and qualified. Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, successors to such members shall be elected as provided for in Code Section 46-2-1.1 and shall serve the terms to which they were elected and until their successors are elected and qualified.
  (2) Except as provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection, all future successors to members of the commission whose terms of office are to expire shall be elected at the state-wide general election immediately preceding the expiration of such terms, shall take office on the first day of January immediately following that election, and shall serve for terms of office of six years.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 380,§ 1, eff. 4/18/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 565,§ 1, eff. 3/4/2022.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 641,§ 1, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 445, §§1, 2 eff. 4/11/2002.
This section was amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 445, §§1, 2 eff. 4/11/2002; however, only the amendment by section 2 of that act is set out above. Section 1 of the act provides that subsection (c) of this section is amended "by striking the description of Public Service Commission Districts 1 through 5 immediately following the colon at the end of the introductory language thereof and inserting in its place the description of Public Service Commission Districts 1 through 5 attached to this Act and made a part hereof and further identified as: "Plan Name: pscpln3 Plan Type: PSC User: Angela Administrator: H142."" The plan to which the act refers was not available at the time of publication. The publisher will post the amendment as soon as possible.
