# § 36-21-2. Definitions

(1) "Benefit system" or "system" means the plan or plans of employee benefits offered and administered pursuant to this chapter.
(2) "Board" means the board of directors of the ACCG Group Health Benefits Program, Inc.
(3) "Contract" means a contract executed pursuant to this chapter between the board and a county.
(4) "Corporation" means the ACCG Group Health Benefits Program, Inc., a corporation established under Chapter 3 of Title 14, the "Georgia Nonprofit Corporation Code," created to provide benefits pursuant to this chapter.
(5) "County" means the group health benefits program operated by the corporation; the Association County Commissioners of Georgia and any affiliate; any Georgia county government; any consolidated city-county government; or any public authority, commission, board, or similar body created or activated by an Act of the General Assembly or by resolution or ordinance of the county governing authority, individually or jointly with any other political subdivision or subdivisions of the State of Georgia, pursuant to the Constitution or an Act of the General Assembly and which carries out its function on a county-wide basis, a multicounty basis, or wholly within the unincorporated area of a county.
(6) "Employee" means any salaried or hourly rated person employed by a county. Notwithstanding any laws to the contrary, the term also includes any appointed or elected member of the governing authority of a county, the chief legal officer and any associate legal officer, and any other elected or appointed county official.
(7) "Employee benefits" means group health benefits, group short-term disability benefits, group death benefits, group accidental death and dismemberment benefits, and such other benefits as from time to time the board may deem advisable.
(8) "Member county" means a county which has contracted to become a member of the benefit system as provided for in this chapter.
