# § 6-4-5. Appointment of members; terms; filling of vacancies; officers; quorum; reimbursement for expenses; compensation of employees; legal services

(a) The authority shall consist of eight members as follows:
  (1) Five members to be appointed by the Governor, at least three of whom shall have expertise in the field of aviation;
  (2) One member to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, who shall not be a member of the General Assembly;
  (3) One member to be appointed by the President of the Senate, who shall not be a member of the General Assembly; and
  (4) The commissioner of transportation, who shall serve as chairman. Two members appointed by the Governor and the members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President of the Senate shall serve for initial terms of two years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. The remaining members appointed by the Governor shall serve for initial terms of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Thereafter, all members shall serve for terms of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy among the members so appointed, whether caused by expiration of term, death, resignation, or otherwise, shall be filled in the same manner as the membership position so vacated was last regularly filled. When the vacancy occurs other than by expiration of term, it shall be filled for the unexpired term and until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(b) The authority shall elect a secretary and a treasurer, who need not necessarily be members of the authority. A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum necessary for the transaction of business, and a majority vote of those present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be sufficient to do and perform any action permitted to the authority by this chapter. The chairman shall vote only in the event of a tie.
(c) No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to transact any and all business as stated in this Code section. If any member of the authority has any pecuniary interest in a project, the fact of such interest shall be disclosed by such member and recorded in the minutes of the authority. The member shall abstain from urging the approval of or voting on any project in which the member has a pecuniary interest.
(d) The members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services but all members shall be entitled to the expense allowance and travel cost reimbursement provided for members of certain boards and commissions pursuant to Code Section 45-7-21 while in the performance of their duties. Employees of the authority shall receive reasonable compensation for their services, the amount to be determined by the members of the authority.
(e) The Attorney General shall provide legal services for the authority. In connection therewith, Code Sections 45-15-13 through 45-15-16 shall be fully applicable.
