# § 22-2-102. Requirements for condemnation; time of hearing; directions for notice and service; attachment of process to petition; cause to proceed in rem

(a) In addition to the requirements set forth in Chapter 1 of this title, whenever it is desirable, for any reason, to arrive at a quick and certain determination of the compensation to be paid first to the condemnee for the taking or damaging of private property, the condemnor shall:
  (1) File a petition in a superior court having jurisdiction for a judgment in rem against the property or interest therein, as provided in Code Section 22-2-130; and
  (2) At or before the filing of the petition, present a copy of the petition to a judge of the superior court of the county wherein the property or interest sought to be condemned is located. Thereupon, unless waived by the parties the judge shall have a hearing in court, in chambers, or by telephone with the parties not less than ten days nor more than 30 days from the filing of the petition to appoint a special master. After such hearing, the judge shall make an order requiring the condemnor, the person in possession of the property or interest, and each person with a legal claim or interest to appear at a hearing before a special master at a time and place specified in the order and to make known their rights, if any, in and to the property or interest sought to be condemned, their claims as to the value of the property or interest, and any other matters material to their respective rights.
(b) The hearing before the special master shall take place not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days after the date of the entry of the order appointing the special master.
(c) The order shall give such directions for notice and the service thereof as are appropriate and as are consistent with this article, in such manner as to provide most effectively an opportunity to all parties at interest to be heard. In condemnations for purposes of constructing or expanding one or more electric transmission lines, in addition to service of the order, a copy of the order shall be mailed by certified mail or sent by statutory overnight delivery to any person shown by the public ad valorem tax records of the county in which the property is located to have an interest in the property and to any other person having open and obvious possession of the property. It shall not be necessary to attach any other process to the petition except the order so made, and the cause shall proceed as in rem.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 444,§ 8, eff. 4/4/2006.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 536, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
