# § 22-2-106. Compensation of special master; allowance by judge of reasonable time for special master to inspect premises

(a) The compensation of the special master shall be provided for by a proper order of the judge of the superior court; shall be included in and made a part of the judgment of the court condemning the property or any interest therein sought to be taken, such judgment to be based on the award of the special master and shall be paid by the condemning body. Such compensation shall be left to the discretion of the court and shall not exceed a reasonable hourly rate consistent with local standards unless otherwise agreed upon by the parties with consent of the court. The compensation of the special master shall be assessed as court costs and shall be paid prior to the filing of any appeal from the judgment of the court; provided, however, that if such compensation has not been determined and assessed at the time of filing any such appeal, the same shall be paid within 30 days from the date of assessment.
(b) The judge may allow the special master a reasonable period of time for personal inspection of the premises and may compensate the special master for his or her time spent inspecting the premises and for any actual expenses incurred by the special master in connection with the inspection, provided that the special master shall file an affidavit with the court showing his or her time spent in inspection and itemizing his or her expenses.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 444,§ 11, eff. 4/4/2006.
