# § 33-7-13. Limitation of risks

(a) A "subject of insurance," for the purposes of this Code section, as to insurance against fire and hazards other than catastrophic hazards includes all properties insured by the same insurer which are customarily considered by underwriters to be subject to loss or damage from the same fire or other such hazard insured against.
(b) "Surplus to policyholders," for the purpose of this Code section shall be deemed to include any voluntary reserves which are not required pursuant to law and shall be determined from the last sworn statement of the insurer on file with the Commissioner or by the last report of examination by the Commissioner, whichever is the more recent at the time of assumption of such risk.
(c) No insurer shall retain any risk on any one subject of insurance, whether located or to be performed in Georgia or elsewhere, in an amount exceeding 10 percent of its surplus to policyholders.
(d) Reinsurance authorized by Code Section 33-7-14 shall be deducted in determining risk retained. As to surety risks, deduction shall also be made of the amount assumed by any established incorporated cosurety and the value of any security deposited, pledged, or held subject to the surety's consent and for the surety's protection.
(e) As to alien insurers, this Code section shall relate only to risks and surplus to policyholders of the insurer's United States branch.
(f) This Code section shall not apply to life insurance, accident and sickness insurance, annuities, title insurance, insurance of ocean marine risks or marine protection and indemnity risks, workers' compensation insurance, employers' liability coverages, nor to any policy or type of coverage as to which the maximum possible loss to the insurer is not readily ascertainable on issuance of the policy.
