# § 20-16-5. Revenue bonds

(a) Revenue bonds issued by the authority shall be paid solely from the property (including, but not limited to, real property, fixtures, personal property, revenues, or other funds) pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated, or otherwise encumbered to secure or to pay such bonds. No revenue bonds shall be issued by the authority under this chapter unless its members adopt a resolution finding that the project or combination of projects for which such bonds are to be issued will be self-liquidating.
(b) All revenue bonds shall be authorized by resolution of the authority, adopted by a majority vote of the full membership of the authority at a regular or special meeting.
(c) Revenue bonds shall bear such date or dates, shall mature at such time or times (not more than 40 years from their respective dates), shall bear interest at such rate or rates (which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time), shall be subject to redemption on such terms, and shall contain such other terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds may permit or provide. The terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions contained in or provided or permitted by any resolution of the authority authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds shall bind the members of the authority then in office and their successors.
(d) The authority shall have power from time to time and whenever it deems it expedient to refund any bonds by the issuance of new bonds, whether or not the bonds to be refunded have matured, and may issue bonds partly to refund bonds then outstanding and partly for any other purpose permitted under this chapter. The refunding bonds may be exchanged for the bonds to be refunded, with such cash adjustments as may be agreed upon, or may be sold and the proceeds applied to the purchase or redemption of the bonds to be refunded.
(e) Any limitations with respect to interest rates or any maximum interest rate or rates found in the usury laws of this state or any other laws of this state shall not apply to revenue bonds of the authority.
(f) The authority shall not have outstanding at any one time bonds and notes exceeding $500 million.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 732,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2012.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 762,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
