# § 20-16-2. Definitions; "self-liquidating" projects

(a) As used in this chapter, the term:
  (1) "Authority" means the Georgia Higher Education Facilities Authority.
  (2) "Board of regents" means the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia.
  (3) Reserved.
  (4) "Bonds" or "revenue bonds" means any bonds issued by the authority under this chapter, including refunding bonds.
  (5) "Construction" means construction, renovation, improvement, rehabilitation, or restoration.
  (6) "Cost of the project" means the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, real properties, personal properties, fixtures, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges; interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; cost of engineering; architectural, and legal expenses; cost of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expense; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this chapter, the construction of any project, or the placing of it in operation and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under this chapter for such project.
  (7) "Project" means facilities of every kind, type, and character deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of any unit.
  (8) "Unit" means any institution, school, academy, university, or experiment station at any particular location which forms a part of the university system or is under the control of the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia.
  (9) "University system" means the University System of Georgia.
(b) Any project or combination of projects shall be deemed "self-liquidating" if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues, rents, or earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom will be sufficient to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing, and operating the project and to pay the principal of and interest on revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project, projects, or combination of projects.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 20, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 762,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
