# § 20-16-18. Creation of Georgia Higher Education Facilities Authority Committee

(a) There is created as a joint committee of the General Assembly the Georgia Higher Education Facilities Authority Committee to be composed of five members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House, two of whom shall be members of the minority party, five members of the Senate appointed by the Senate Committee on Assignments, two of whom shall be members of the minority party, the chairperson of the House Committee on Higher Education or his or her designee, and the chairperson of the Senate Higher Education Committee or his or her designee. The members of the committee shall serve two-year terms concurrent with their terms as members of the General Assembly. The Senate Committee on Assignments shall appoint a cochairperson from the Senate members of the committee, and the Speaker of the House shall appoint a cochairperson from the House of Representatives members of the committee. The cochairpersons shall serve terms of two years concurrent with their terms as members of the General Assembly. Vacancies in an appointed member's position or in the offices of cochairperson of the committee shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. The committee shall periodically inquire into and review the operations of the Georgia Higher Education Facilities Authority, as well as periodically review and evaluate the success with which the authority is accomplishing its statutory duties and functions as provided in this chapter.
(b) The state auditor, the Attorney General, and all other agencies of state government, upon request by the committee, shall assist the committee in the discharge of its duties set forth in this Code section. The committee may employ not more than two staff members and may secure the services of independent accountants, engineers, and consultants.
(c) The Georgia Higher Education Facilities Authority shall cooperate with the committee, its authorized personnel, the Attorney General, the state auditor, the state accounting officer, and other state agencies in order that the charges of the committee, set forth in this Code section, may be timely and efficiently discharged. The authority shall submit to the committee such reports and data as the committee shall reasonably require of the authority in order that the committee may adequately perform its functions. The Attorney General is authorized to bring appropriate legal actions to enforce any laws specifically or generally relating to the Georgia Higher Education Facilities Authority. The committee shall, on or before the first day of January of each year, and at such other times as it deems necessary, submit to the General Assembly a report of its findings and recommendations based upon the review of the Georgia Higher Education Facilities Authority, as set forth in this chapter.
(d) In the discharge of its duties, the committee shall evaluate the performance of the Georgia Higher Education Facilities Authority consistent with the following criteria:
  (1) Prudent, legal, and accountable expenditure of public funds;
  (2) Efficient operation; and
  (3) Performance of its statutory responsibilities.
(e)
  (1) The committee is authorized to expend state funds available to the committee for the discharge of its duties. Such funds may be used for the purposes of compensating staff personnel; paying for services of independent accountants, engineers, and consultants; and paying all other necessary expenses incurred by the committee in performing its duties.
  (2) The members of the committee shall receive the same compensation, per diem, expenses, and allowances for their service on the committee as is authorized by law for members of interim legislative study committees.
  (3) The funds necessary for the purposes of the committee shall come from the funds appropriated to and available to the legislative branch of government.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 762,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
