# § 51-3-43. Required warning and agreement for space flight; requirements for enforceability

(a) A space flight participant shall sign a warning and agreement before participating in any space flight activity. Such warning and agreement shall be in writing and include the following language: "WARNING AND AGREEMENTUNDER GEORGIA LAW THERE IS NO LIABILITY FOR INJURY, DEATH, OR OTHER LOSS RESULTING FROM ANY INHERENT RISKS OF SPACE FLIGHT ACTIVITIES. SUCH INHERENT RISKS OF SPACE FLIGHT ACTIVITIES INCLUDE, WITHOUT LIMITATION, THE POTENTIAL FOR SERIOUS BODILY INJURY, SICKNESS, PERMANENT DISABILITY, PARALYSIS, AND LOSS OF LIFE; EXPOSURE TO EXTREME CONDITIONS AND CIRCUMSTANCES; ACCIDENTS, CONTACT, OR COLLISION WITH OTHER SPACE FLIGHT PARTICIPANTS, SPACE FLIGHT VEHICLES, AND EQUIPMENT; AND DANGERS ARISING FROM ADVERSE WEATHER CONDITIONS AND EQUIPMENT FAILURE.I UNDERSTAND AND ACKNOWLEDGE THAT BY SIGNING THIS WARNING AND AGREEMENT, I HAVE EXPRESSLY ACCEPTED AND ASSUMED ALL RISKS AND RESPONSIBILITIES FOR INJURY, DEATH, AND OTHER LOSS THAT MAY RESULT FROM THE INHERENT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH PARTICIPATION IN ANY SPACE FLIGHT ACTIVITIES. I FURTHER UNDERSTAND AND AGREE THAT BY SIGNING THIS WARNING AND AGREEMENT, I HAVE EXPRESSLY WAIVED ALL CLAIMS OF MY HEIRS, EXECUTORS, ADMINISTRATORS, SUCCESSORS, AND ASSIGNEES FOR ANY INJURY, DEATH, AND OTHER LOSS THAT MAY RESULT FROM MY PARTICIPATION IN ANY SPACE FLIGHT ACTIVITIES DUE TO THE INHERENT RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH PARTICIPATION IN SPACE FLIGHT ACTIVITIES.FURTHER WARNING: DO NOT SIGN UNLESS YOU HAVE READ AND UNDERSTOOD THIS WARNING AND AGREEMENT."
(b) The warning and agreement under subsection (a) of this Code section shall be considered effective and enforceable if it is:
  (1) In writing;
  (2) In a document separate from any other agreement between the space flight participant and the space flight entity other than a warning, consent, or assumption of risk statement required under federal law or under applicable laws of another state;
  (3) Printed in capital letters in not less than 10-point bold type;
  (4) Signed by the space flight participant;
  (5) Signed by a competent witness; and
  (6) Provided to the space flight participant at least 24 hours prior to such space flight participant's participation in any space flight activity.
(c) A warning and agreement that is in writing and signed by a space flight participant that is in compliance with the requirements of this Code section shall be considered effective and enforceable as to the heirs, executors, administrators, successors, and assignees of the space flight participant with respect to a space flight entity's civil liability or criminal responsibility for a space flight participant injury to such space flight participant.
(d) A warning and agreement executed pursuant to this Code section shall not limit liability for a space flight participant injury:
  (1) Proximately caused by the space flight entity's gross negligence evidencing willful or wanton disregard for the safety of the space flight participant; or
  (2) Intentionally caused by a space flight entity.
(e) A warning and agreement executed in compliance with this Code section shall not be deemed unconscionable or against public policy.

## History

Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 172,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
