# § 43-17-3.1. Registration as a solicitor agent; application; denial; renewal; amendments; fees

(a) No solicitor agent shall solicit contributions on behalf of a charitable organization within or from this state, unless such solicitor agent is a registered solicitor agent pursuant to this Code section and is affiliated through employment or as an independent contractor pursuant to a written agreement with a paid solicitor or charitable organization which is either registered or exempt from registration. No solicitor agent shall solicit contributions in person unless such solicitor agent has been qualified for such means of solicitation by the Secretary of State.
(b)
  (1) A solicitor agent shall register with the Secretary of State prior to engaging in any solicitation. Each registration shall expire on December 31 of each year and may be renewed for additional one-year periods upon application and the payment of the fee.
  (2) Applications for registration may be made by any person and shall be accompanied by the registration fee set forth in subsection (c) of this Code section. Such application for registration shall be made in a manner prescribed by the Secretary of State, which may include, in whole or in part, electronic filing, shall be verified by the applicant, shall be filed with the Secretary of State, and shall contain the information and documents set forth in this paragraph and such other information as may be prescribed by rules and regulations promulgated by the Secretary of State:
    (A) The name of the applicant;
    (B) The address of each place of business of the applicant;
    (C) The name and address of the paid solicitor or charitable organization with which the solicitor agent will be affiliated by employment or as an independent contractor;
    (D) If the solicitor agent is to be an independent contractor, a copy of the contract setting forth the terms and conditions thereof;
    (E) A list of any other states in which the applicant is registered as a paid solicitor agent and, if any registration of the applicant under the charitable solicitation law of any state has ever been denied, revoked, suspended, or withdrawn or if such a proceeding is pending in any state, full details with respect thereto;
    (F) Whether the applicant has ever been subject to any injunction or disciplinary proceeding by any state agency involving any aspect of fund raising or solicitation, has ever been convicted of or charged with a misdemeanor of which fraud is an essential element or which involved charitable fund raising, or has ever been convicted of or charged with a felony and, if so, all pertinent information with respect to such injunction, disciplinary proceeding, conviction, or charge;
    (G) Whether the applicant has ever been subject to an order, consent order, or any other disciplinary or administrative proceeding pursuant to the unfair and deceptive acts and practices law of any state and, if so, all pertinent information with respect to such order or proceedings;
    (H) Whether the applicant seeks to be qualified to contact contributors and potential contributors in person, as distinguished from mail, telephonic, or electronic contact; and
    (I) With respect to applicants who seek to be qualified to contact contributors or potential contributors in person, written consent to a criminal background investigation for the purpose of verification by the Secretary of State of information provided in the application.
  (3) Except as provided in paragraph (7) of this subsection, within 15 business days after an applicant has fully complied with this subsection, the Secretary of State shall register such applicant as a solicitor agent unless he or she shall find that there are grounds for denial as provided in Code Section 43-17-7. When the Secretary of State has registered an applicant, he or she shall immediately notify the applicant of such registration. In the event the Secretary of State has not notified the applicant of deficiencies or grounds for denial of the application within such period, the applicant may conduct itself in a manner as if registered until and unless it is so notified.
  (4) If the Secretary of State finds that there are sufficient grounds to deny the registration of the applicant as provided in Code Section 43-17-7, he or she shall issue an order refusing to register the applicant. The order shall state specifically the grounds for its issuance. A copy of the order shall be mailed to the applicant at his or her business address and to any charitable organization or paid solicitor who proposes to employ such applicant.
  (5) Every registration under this Code section shall expire on December 31 of each year. The registration of a solicitor agent must be renewed each year by the submission of a renewal application containing the information required in an application for registration, except to the extent that the Secretary of State by rule does not require the resubmission of such information which has previously been included in an application or renewal application previously filed, and by the payment of the proper registration fee.
  (6) The registration of a solicitor agent shall be promptly amended to reflect a change of name or address or other changes in the information previously provided to the Secretary of State. Such amendments shall be filed in a manner which the Secretary of State may prescribe by rule or regulation.
  (7) With respect to applicants for solicitor agent seeking to be qualified to solicit in person, the applicant shall not be qualified to so solicit until the Secretary of State affirmatively notifies the applicant that he or she has been so qualified.
(c) The fee for the initial registration of a solicitor agent shall be $50.00. The fee to amend the registration shall be $15.00. The annual renewal fee for a solicitor agent shall be $50.00.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 583,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2008.
