# § 43-17-8.2. Requirement for orderly, clean, and sanitary receptacles; notice; penalty for violations

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, any local governing authority which has collection receptacles located within its geographical boundaries shall be authorized to issue written notices of violations to both the property owner and the paid solicitor responsible for each collection receptacle at any time the immediate area surrounding such collection receptacle is not maintained in an orderly, clean, and sanitary manner. Notice shall be promptly sent to the property owner and the paid solicitor, with a copy to the charitable organization. The notice shall provide for a ten-day period from the date of the notice to remediate the violation and clean and maintain the area around such collection receptacle.
(b)
  (1) If the property owner, paid solicitor, or charitable organization responsible for the operation of a collection receptacle fails to comply with the notice in accordance with subsection (a) of this Code section three times in any calendar year, or, if the governing authority finds that the area surrounding such collection receptacle is a nuisance, the local governing authority shall be authorized to petition the superior court to issue an order requiring the removal of such collection receptacle from the geographical boundaries of the jurisdiction for a period of not less than three years.
  (2) The relief imposed by the superior court shall require the immediate removal of such collection receptacle at the cost of the property owner or paid solicitor responsible for it, or, alternatively, the charitable organization for which such collection receptacle was placed and the imposition of court costs.
  (3) If a collection receptacle is not removed within 30 days of the superior court's order, the local governing authority shall be authorized to remove such collection receptacle and seek reimbursement from the property owner, paid solicitor, or charitable organization for court costs and fees related to the removal of such collection receptacle.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 316,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
