# § 43-17-10. Administration of chapter

(a) The administration of this chapter shall be vested in the Secretary of State.
(b) The Secretary of State is authorized to administer oaths in and to prescribe forms for all matters arising under this chapter. The Secretary of State shall cooperate with the administrators of the charitable solicitation laws of other states with a view to assisting those administrators in the enforcement of such laws and to achieving maximum uniformity in the interpretation of like provisions of the laws administered by them and in the forms which are required to be filed under such laws.
(c) The Secretary of State is authorized to employ examiners, clerks, stenographers, and other employees as the administration of that portion of this chapter vested in him may require. The Secretary of State is also authorized to appoint and employ investigators who shall have, in any case that there is reason to believe a violation of this chapter has occurred or is about to occur, the right and power to serve subpoenas and to swear out and execute search warrants and arrest warrants.
(d) The Secretary of State may promulgate such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, necessary for the administration and enforcement of this chapter. Such rules and regulations shall be promulgated in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(e) The Secretary of State or any persons employed by him shall be paid, in addition to their regular compensation, the transportation fare, board, lodging, and other traveling expenses necessary and actually incurred by each of them in the performance of their duties under this chapter.
(f) The Secretary of State may delegate such of his or her powers and duties under this chapter as he or she desires to a division director in his or her office. Such division director, when duly appointed, shall be the ultimate decision maker in all contested case hearings held pursuant to Code Section 43-17-16 and the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(g) The Secretary of State may designate filing depositories for all records required to be filed and maintained under this chapter. Such records may be maintained in original form or by means of microfilm, microfiche, microphotographic reproduction, photographic reproduction, word processing, computerization, or other acceptable reproductive methods.
(h) Except as provided in subsection (i) of this Code section, information and documents filed with or obtained by the Secretary of State are public information and are available for public examination.
(i) The following information and documents do not constitute public information under subsection (h) of this Code section and shall be confidential:
  (1) Information or documents obtained by the Secretary of State in connection with an investigation under Code Section 43-17-11; and
  (2) Any document or record specifically designated as confidential in accordance with this chapter or the rules and regulations promulgated under this chapter.
