# § 43-17-17. Appeals by petition for review

(a) An appeal may be taken from any order of the Secretary of State resulting from a hearing held in accordance with Code Section 43-17-16 by any person adversely affected thereby to the Superior Court of Fulton County by serving the Secretary of State, within 20 days after the date of entry of such order, a copy of the petition for review filed in the Superior Court of Fulton County and signed by the petitioner, stating:
  (1) The order from which the appeal is taken;
  (2) The ground upon which a reversal or modification of the order is sought; and
  (3) A demand for a certified transcript of the record of the order.
(b) Upon receipt of the petition for review, the Secretary of State shall, within ten days thereafter, make, certify, and deliver to the Superior Court of Fulton County a transcript of the record of the order from which the appeal is taken, provided that the appellant shall pay the reasonable costs of such transcript. The petition for review and transcript of the record shall constitute appellant's complaint. The complaint shall thereupon be entered on the trial calendar of the court.
(c) If the order of the Secretary of State shall be reversed, the reviewing court shall by its mandate specifically direct the Secretary of State as to any further action to be taken by the Secretary of State in the matter, including the making and entering of an order or orders in connection therewith and the conditions, limitations, or restrictions to be therein contained.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-34, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
