# § 50-39-3. Creation of authority; board of directors

(a) There is created the Atlanta-region Transit Link "ATL" Authority as a body corporate and politic, which shall be deemed an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation thereof, for purposes of managing or causing to be managed transit and air quality within certain areas of this state; and by that name, style, and title such body may contract and be contracted with and bring and defend actions in all courts of this state. Such authority shall serve as the sole entity for coordination and planning and the dispersing of federal and state funding for transit within the jurisdiction of the authority. Such authority shall work with counties, municipalities, and operators of transit services within the jurisdiction of the authority to provide a consistent and integrated vision for transit through transparent decision making and execution. This Code section shall not be deemed to impair or interfere in any manner with any existing rights under a contract entered into prior to December 1, 2018, or any federal grants or agreements awarded or entered into prior to December 1, 2018. This Code section shall not be applicable to projects or services provided for under the terms of a contract entered into as of December 1, 2018, under the authority granted pursuant to a local constitutional amendment set out at Ga. L. 1964, p. 1008, and the planning, funding, coordination, and delivery of such projects or services shall be as provided for by such contract or contracts.
(b) The management of the business and affairs of the authority shall be vested in a board of directors, subject to the provisions of this chapter and to the provisions of bylaws adopted by the board as authorized by this chapter. The board of directors shall make bylaws governing its own operation and shall have the power to make bylaws, rules, and regulations for the government of the authority and the operation, management, and maintenance of such projects as the board may determine appropriate to undertake from time to time.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a majority of the members of the board then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the members of the board present at the time of the vote, if a quorum is present at such time, shall be the act of the board unless the vote of a greater number is required by law or by the bylaws of the board of directors. The board of directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the full board of directors, may designate from among its members one or more committees, each consisting of two or more members of the board, which shall have and exercise such authority as the board may delegate to it under such procedures as the board may direct by resolution establishing such committee or committees.
(d) No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of a majority of the appointed members from exercising all rights and performing all duties of the authority. The authority shall have perpetual existence. Any change in the name or composition of the authority shall in no way affect the vested rights of any person under this chapter or impair the obligations of any contracts existing under this chapter.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 409,§ 2-1, eff. 5/3/2018.
