# § 9-14-48. Hearing; evidence; depositions; affidavits; determination of compliance with procedural rules; disposition

(a) The court may receive proof by depositions, oral testimony, sworn affidavits, or other evidence. No other forms of discovery shall be allowed except upon leave of court and a showing of exceptional circumstances.
(b) The taking of depositions or depositions upon written questions by either party shall be governed by Code Sections 9-11-26 through 9-11-32 and 9-11-37; provided, however, that the time allowed in Code Section 9-11-31 for service of cross-questions upon all other parties shall be ten days from the date the notice and written questions are served.
(c) If sworn affidavits are intended by either party to be introduced into evidence, the party intending to introduce such an affidavit shall cause it to be served upon the opposing party at least ten days in advance of the date set for a hearing in the case. The affidavit so served shall include the address and telephone number of the affiant, home or business, if known, to provide the opposing party a reasonable opportunity to contact the affiant; failure to include this information in any affidavit shall render the affidavit inadmissible. The affidavit shall also be accompanied by a notice of the party's intention to introduce it into evidence. The superior court judge considering the petition for writ of habeas corpus may resolve disputed issues of fact upon the basis of sworn affidavits standing by themselves.
(d) The court shall review the trial record and transcript of proceedings and consider whether the petitioner made timely motion or objection or otherwise complied with Georgia procedural rules at trial and on appeal and whether, in the event the petitioner had new counsel subsequent to trial, the petitioner raised any claim of ineffective assistance of trial counsel on appeal; and absent a showing of cause for noncompliance with such requirement, and of actual prejudice, habeas corpus relief shall not be granted. In all cases habeas corpus relief shall be granted to avoid a miscarriage of justice. If the court finds in favor of the petitioner, it shall enter an appropriate order with respect to the judgment or sentence challenged in the proceeding and such supplementary orders as to rearraignment, retrial, custody, or discharge as may be necessary and proper.
(e) A petition, other than one challenging a conviction for which a death sentence has been imposed or challenging a sentence of death, may be dismissed if there is a particularized showing that the respondent has been prejudiced in its ability to respond to the petition by delay in its filing unless the petitioner shows by a preponderance of the evidence that it is based on grounds of which he or she could not have had knowledge by the exercise of reasonable diligence before the circumstances prejudicial to the respondent occurred. This subsection shall apply only to convictions had before July 1, 2004.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 661, § 3, eff. 7/1/2004.
