# § 19-11-28. Accident and sickness insurance coverage for children; authorization of payments of benefits; notice of termination; immunity from liability of person or entity providing access to coverage

(a) The signature of the medical insurance obligee or an agent of the department shall constitute a valid authorization to any insurer to process benefits and to make payments to a health care provider or the medical insurance obligee in accordance with any accident and sickness insurance policy.
(b) An order of medical support shall operate as an assignment to the medical insurance obligee of any right to benefits under a policy of accident and sickness coverage maintained by the medical insurance obligor insofar as dependent coverage is available. The medical insurance obligee shall be subrogated to the rights of the medical insurance obligor to the extent necessary to pursue any claim against the insurer under such policy.
(c) Within ten business days after termination of a policy of accident and sickness insurance established pursuant to Code Section 19-11-27, or the termination of employment of the medical insurance obligor, the person or entity providing access to such coverage on behalf of a medical insurance obligor shall mail a termination notice to the person or entity which initially sent a notice of enrollment or National Medical Support Notice and provide the medical insurance obligor's last known address and, if known, the address of the medical insurance obligor's new employer.
(d) Any person or entity providing access to accident and sickness coverage on behalf of a medical insurance obligor shall be immune from any civil or criminal liability while complying in good faith with the provisions of this Code section and Code Section 19-11-27.
(e) Any person or entity acting as a plan fiduciary who makes payment pursuant to this Code section discharges to the extent of any payment the plan's obligation.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 410,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 951, § 8, eff. 7/1/2002.
