# § 19-11-183. Duties of Department of Human Services; available support proceedings

(a) In a support proceeding under this part, the Department of Human Services shall:
  (1) Transmit and receive applications; and
  (2) Initiate or facilitate the institution of a proceeding regarding an application in a tribunal of Georgia.
(b) The following support proceedings are available to an obligee under the convention:
  (1) Recognition or recognition and enforcement of a foreign support order;
  (2) Enforcement of a support order issued or recognized in Georgia;
  (3) Establishment of a support order if there is no existing order, including, if necessary, determination of parentage of a child;
  (4) Establishment of a support order if recognition of a foreign support order is refused under paragraph (2), (4), or (9) of subsection (b) of Code Section 19-11-184.3;
  (5) Modification of a support order of a tribunal of Georgia; and
  (6) Modification of a support order of a tribunal of another state or a foreign country.
(c) The following support proceedings are available under the convention to an obligor against which there is an existing support order:
  (1) Recognition of an order suspending or limiting enforcement of an existing support order of a tribunal of Georgia;
  (2) Modification of a support order of a tribunal of Georgia; and
  (3) Modification of a support order of a tribunal of another state or a foreign country.
(d) A tribunal of Georgia may not require security, bond, or deposit, however described, to guarantee the payment of costs and expenses in proceedings under the convention.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 224,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
