# § 19-11-26. Accident and sickness insurance coverage for children; order requiring medical support

(a) In all cases involving the assignment and collection of child support, or where medical assistance benefits are being provided, the department or court may determine, as a regular part of its investigation and inquiry, whether accident and sickness coverage for the child or children involved is reasonably available to a party to a court order at a reasonable cost in connection with the party's employment or union. For purposes of this article, the term "person or entity providing access to coverage" shall mean an employer or union which offers a group insurance plan, as defined in Section 607(b) of the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, a health maintenance organization or a service benefit plan, or any other policy of health insurance under Title 33. If it is determined that such coverage is reasonably available in connection with the medical insurance obligor's employment or union, the department is authorized to petition for modification of any existing order of support to include the provision of such coverage, to intervene in any pending action to have such coverage included, or to include the request for such coverage in any action brought by the department.
(b) Upon petition by the department to have accident and sickness insurance coverage included, any court or administrative hearing officer having jurisdiction over the matter may include the provision of medical support in any order of support it may enter, if such medical support is found to be available to the medical insurance obligor in connection with his or her employment or union at a reasonable cost consistent with subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Any order requiring medical support under this Code section shall contain language notifying the medical insurance obligor that failure to provide accident and sickness insurance coverage may result in direct enforcement of the order. Any order of medical support entered or modified prior to April 1, 1994, shall be construed as a matter of law to contain this notice.
(d) Any order requiring medical support under this Code section shall remain in effect until:
  (1) A further order of the court or hearing officer;
  (2) The child is emancipated, if there is no express language to the contrary in the order; or
  (3) Coverage is no longer available and no conversion privileges exist at a reasonable cost to continue coverage beyond the termination date of the policy.
(e) Any order requiring medical support under this Code section shall not require a plan to provide any type or form of benefit, or any option not otherwise provided under the plan, except to the extent necessary to meet the requirements of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 410,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
