# § 19-11-53. Representation of petitioner by district attorney; fees; monthly collection reports; payment to county for services; clerk's fees

(a) The district attorney of each superior court shall be authorized to represent the petitioner in any proceeding under this article. Otherwise, at the option of the district attorney, actions under this article shall be brought as provided in Article 1 of this chapter. The district attorney shall be authorized to require the completion of an application. Fees for such services shall be charged as part of the application in accordance with subsection (b) of Code Section 19-11-8. The department shall be entitled to receive monthly reports concerning collections under this provision pursuant to Code Section 19-11-21.
(b) For such services by the district attorney there shall be paid to the county in which the petition is handled the sum of $50.00 for each petition handled, whether this state is the initiating or the responding state. In all counties in which the clerk of the superior court is on a fee basis, the district attorney shall pay from the sum so received by him to the clerk the fees as are allowed by law for the filing of petitions and service of processes filed under this article. However, before the sum shall be paid, an order granting or denying support must have been entered.
(c) When acting pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, the district attorney shall represent the petitioner to the extent that the interests of the petitioner do not conflict with the interests of the department.
