# § 19-11-186. Prosecutor's duties upon request by governor; rendition

(a) Before making a demand that the governor of another state surrender an individual charged criminally in this state with having failed to provide for the support of an obligee, the Governor of this state may require a prosecutor of this state to demonstrate that at least 90 days previously the obligee had initiated proceedings for support pursuant to this article or that the proceeding would be of no avail.
(b) If, under this article or a law substantially similar to this article, the governor of another state makes a demand that the Governor of this state surrender an individual charged criminally in that state with having failed to provide for the support of a child or other individual to whom a duty of support is owed, the Governor of this state may require a prosecutor to investigate the demand and report whether a proceeding for support has been initiated or would be effective. If it appears that a proceeding would be effective but has not been initiated, the Governor of this state may delay honoring the demand for a reasonable time to permit the initiation of a proceeding.
(c) If a proceeding for support has been initiated and the individual whose rendition is demanded prevails, the Governor of this state may decline to honor the demand. If the petitioner prevails and the individual whose rendition is demanded is subject to a support order, the Governor of this state may decline to honor the demand if the individual is complying with the support order.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 224,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
