# § 19-11-110. Jurisdiction

(a) In a proceeding to establish or enforce a support order or to determine parentage of a child, a tribunal of this state may exercise personal jurisdiction over a nonresident individual or the individual's guardian or conservator if:
  (1) The individual is personally served with process within Georgia;
  (2) The individual submits to the jurisdiction of Georgia by consent, by entering a general appearance, or by filing a responsive document having the effect of waiving any contest to personal jurisdiction;
  (3) The individual resided with the child in Georgia;
  (4) The individual resided in Georgia and provided prenatal expenses or support for the child;
  (5) The child resides in Georgia as a result of the acts or directives of the individual;
  (6) The individual engaged in sexual intercourse in Georgia and the child may have been conceived by that act of intercourse;
  (7) The individual asserted parentage of a child in the putative father registry maintained in this state by the Department of Human Services; or
  (8) There is any other basis consistent with the Constitutions of Georgia and the United States for the exercise of personal jurisdiction.
(b) The bases of personal jurisdiction set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section or in any other law of this state may not be used to acquire personal jurisdiction for a tribunal of this state to modify a child support order of another state unless the requirements of Code Section 19-11-170 are met, or, in the case of a foreign support order, unless the requirements of Code Section 19-11-174 are met.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 224,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
