# § 19-11-124. Receipt of petition of pleading by responding Georgia tribunal; action authorized; limitations; foreign currency conversion

(a) When a responding tribunal of Georgia receives a petition or comparable pleading from an initiating tribunal or directly pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 19-11-120, it shall cause the petition or pleading to be filed and notify the petitioner where and when it was filed.
(b) A responding tribunal of Georgia, to the extent not prohibited by other law, may do one or more of the following:
  (1) Establish or enforce a support order, modify a child support order, determine the controlling child support order, or determine parentage of a child;
  (2) Order an obligor to comply with a support order, specifying the amount and the manner of compliance;
  (3) Order income withholding;
  (4) Determine the amount of any arrearages and specify a method of payment;
  (5) Enforce orders by civil or criminal contempt, or both;
  (6) Set aside property for satisfaction of the support order;
  (7) Place liens and order execution on the obligor's property;
  (8) Order an obligor to keep the tribunal informed of the obligor's current residential address, e-mail address, telephone number, employer, address of employment, and telephone number at the place of employment;
  (9) Issue an order for the arrest of an obligor who has failed after proper notice to appear at a hearing ordered by the tribunal and enter the arrest order in any local and state computer systems for criminal warrants;
  (10) Order the obligor to seek appropriate employment by specified methods;
  (11) Award reasonable attorney's fees and other fees and costs; and
  (12) Grant any other available remedy.
(c) A responding tribunal of Georgia shall include in a support order issued under this article, or in the documents accompanying the order, the calculations on which the support order is based.
(d) A responding tribunal of Georgia may not condition the payment of a support order issued under this article upon compliance by a party with provisions for visitation.
(e) If a responding tribunal of Georgia issues an order under this article, the tribunal shall send a copy of the order to the petitioner and the respondent and to the initiating tribunal, if any.
(f) If requested to enforce a support order, arrears, or judgment or modify a support order stated in a foreign currency, a responding tribunal of Georgia shall convert the amount stated in the foreign currency to the equivalent amount in dollars under the applicable official or market exchange rate as publicly reported.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 224,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
