# § 19-11-29. Accident and sickness insurance coverage for children; liability and penalty applicable to person or entity providing access to coverage and insurers

(a) Any person or entity providing access to accident and sickness insurance coverage on behalf of a medical insurance obligor in connection with the medical insurance obligor's employment or union shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 per occurrence for willful failure to enroll promptly, without regard to enrollment season restrictions, a dependent in an accident and sickness insurance plan under an order of medical support or a notice of enrollment; provided, however, that no liability shall exist where such person or entity acts in accordance with subsection (g) of Code Section 19-11-27.
(b) Insurers shall not deny enrollment of a child under subsection (a) of this Code section in a parent's health insurance coverage on the ground that the child was born out of wedlock, is not claimed as a dependent on the parent's federal income tax return, or does not reside with the parent or in the insurer's service area.
(c) Any person or entity providing access to accident and sickness insurance coverage on behalf of a medical insurance obligor shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 per occurrence for the disenrollment by the medical insurance obligor, or elimination of coverage of the child, unless the medical insurance obligor provides written proof that the child has been enrolled or will be enrolled in comparable insurance coverage, with the coverage to take effect no later than the effective date of disenrollment; provided, however, that no liability shall exist where such person or entity acts in accordance with subsection (d) of Code Section 19-11-26.
(d) The department may recover the civil penalty provided for in this Code section by civil action or pursuant to any remedy otherwise available for the enforcement of court orders.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 410,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 951, § 9, eff. 7/1/2002.
