# § 19-11-129. State information agency

(a) The Department of Human Services is the state information agency under this article.
(b) The state information agency shall:
  (1) Compile and maintain a current list, including addresses, of the tribunals in this state which have jurisdiction under this article and any support enforcement agencies in this state and transmit a copy to the state information agency of every other state;
  (2) Maintain a register of names and addresses of tribunals and support enforcement agencies received from other states;
  (3) Forward to the appropriate tribunal in the county in Georgia in which the obligee who is an individual or the obligor resides, or in which the obligor's property is believed to be located, all documents concerning a proceeding under this article received from another state or a foreign country; and
  (4) Obtain information concerning the location of the obligor and the obligor's property within this state not exempt from execution, by such means as postal verification and federal or state locator services, examination of telephone directories, requests for the obligor's address from employers, and examination of governmental records, including, to the extent not prohibited by other law, those relating to real property, vital statistics, law enforcement, taxation, motor vehicles, drivers' licenses, and social security.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 224,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
