# § 19-11-42. Definitions

(1) "Certification" means certification in accordance with the laws of the certifying state.
(2) "Court" means the superior court of this state and, when the context requires, means the court of any other state as defined in a substantially similar reciprocal law.
(3) "Initiating state" means any state in which a proceeding pursuant to this article or a substantially similar reciprocal law is commenced.
(4) "Law" includes both common law and statute law.
(5) "Obligee" means any person to whom a duty of support is owed.
(6) "Obligor" means any person owing a duty of support.
(7) "Register" means the entry of an order by a superior court of this state making a foreign support order a support order of this state.
(8) "Registering court" means any superior court of this state in which the support order of the rendering state is registered.
(9) "Responding state" means any state in which any proceeding pursuant to the proceeding in the initiating state is or may be commenced.
(10) "State" includes:
  (A) The District of Columbia and any state, territory, or possession of the United States or any foreign jurisdiction in which this article or a substantially similar reciprocal law has been enacted; and
  (B) Any province or territory of the Dominion of Canada declared to be a reciprocating state by the Attorney General pursuant to Code Section 19-11-44.
(11) "Support order" means any judgment, decree, or order of support, whether temporary or final and whether subject to modification, revocation, or remission, regardless of the kind of action in which it is entered, provided that custody, visitation rights, property settlement, and all matters other than support are specifically excluded from enforcement under this article.
