# § 19-11-30. Confidentiality of information and records; safeguards against unauthorized use

(a)
  (1) Information and records obtained by the department pursuant to any provision of this article or Title IV-D of the federal Social Security Act shall be deemed to be confidential and shall be released only by permission of the party or parties named in the information or records, by order of the court, or for those purposes specifically authorized by this article. Any person who violates this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
  (2) The department shall provide to an attorney representing an obligor, to an attorney representing an obligee, or to a private child support collector, as defined in Code Section 10-1-392, and hired by an obligee and acting pursuant to a power of attorney signed by such obligee, any documents which such obligor or obligee would be entitled to request and receive from the child support enforcement agency.
(b) The department shall establish safeguards against the unauthorized use or disclosure of information relating to:
  (1) Proceedings or actions to establish paternity;
  (2) Proceedings to establish or enforce support;
  (3) The whereabouts of one party to another party against whom a protective order with respect to the former party has been entered; and
  (4) The whereabouts of one party to another party if the department has reason to believe that the release of the information may result in physical or emotional harm to the former party.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 242,§ 1-23, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 344,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2009.
