# § 19-11-3. Definitions

(1) "Account" means a demand deposit account, checking or negotiable order of withdrawal account, savings account, time deposit account, or a money market mutual fund account.
(2) "Child support enforcement agency" means the entity within the department and its contractors that are authorized to enforce a duty of support.
(3) "Court order for child support" means any order for child support issued by a court or administrative or quasi-judicial entity of this state or another state, including an order in a criminal proceeding which results in the payment of child support as a condition of probation or otherwise. Such order shall be deemed to be a IV-D order for purposes of this article when either party to the order submits a copy of the order for support and a signed application to the department for IV-D services, when the right to child support has been assigned to the department pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 19-11-6, or upon registration of a foreign order pursuant to Article 3 of this chapter.
(4) "Department" means the Department of Human Services.
(5) "Dependent child" means any individual under the age of 18 who is not otherwise emancipated, self-supporting, married, or a member of the armed forces of the United States.
(6) "Duty of support" means any duty of support imposed or imposable by law or by court order, decree, or judgment.
(7) "Financial institution" means every federal or state chartered commercial or savings bank, including savings and loan associations and cooperative banks, federal or state chartered credit unions, benefit associations, insurance companies, safe-deposit companies, trust companies, and any money market mutual fund.
(8) "IV-D" means Title IV-D of the federal Social Security Act.
(9) "Medical insurance obligee" means any person to whom a duty of medical support is owed.
(10) "Medical insurance obligor" means any person owing a duty of medical support.
(11) "Money market mutual fund" means every regulated investment company within the meaning of Section 851(a) of the Internal Revenue Code which seeks to maintain a constant net asset value of $1.00 in accordance with 17 C.F.R. Section 270.2A-7.
(12) "Obligee" means the individual to whom the payment of a support obligation is owed.
(13) "Obligor" means the individual owing a duty of support.
(14) "Parent" means the natural or adoptive parents of a child and includes the father of a child born out of wedlock if his paternity has been established in a judicial proceeding or if he has acknowledged paternity under oath either in open court, in an administrative hearing, or by verified writing.
(15) "TANF" means temporary assistance for needy families.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 242,§ 1-16, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 579,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 410,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 175, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
