# § 19-11-184.5. Recognition and enforcement of foreign support agreement

(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsections (c) and (d) of this Code section, a tribunal of Georgia shall recognize and enforce a foreign support agreement registered in this state.
(b) An application or direct request for recognition and enforcement of a foreign support agreement must be accompanied by:
  (1) A complete text of the foreign support agreement; and
  (2) A record stating that the foreign support agreement is enforceable as an order of support in the issuing country.
(c) A tribunal of Georgia may vacate the registration of a foreign support agreement only if, acting on its own motion, the tribunal finds that recognition and enforcement would be manifestly incompatible with public policy.
(d) In a contest of a foreign support agreement, a tribunal of Georgia may refuse recognition and enforcement of the agreement if it finds:
  (1) Recognition and enforcement of the agreement is manifestly incompatible with public policy;
  (2) The agreement was obtained by fraud or falsification;
  (3) The agreement is incompatible with a support order involving the same parties and having the same purpose in this state, another state, or a foreign country if the support order is entitled to recognition and enforcement under this article in Georgia; or
  (4) The record submitted under subsection (b) of this Code section lacks authenticity or integrity.
(e) A proceeding for recognition and enforcement of a foreign support agreement must be suspended during the pendency of a challenge to or appeal of the agreement before a tribunal of another state or a foreign country.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 224,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
