# § 19-11-180. Definitions

(1) "Application" means a request under the convention by an obligee or obligor, or on behalf of a child, made through a central authority for assistance from another central authority.
(2) "Central authority" means the entity designated by the United States or a foreign country described in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (5) of Code Section 19-11-101 to perform the functions specified in the convention.
(3) "Convention support order" means a support order of a tribunal of a foreign country described in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (5) of Code Section 19-11-101.
(4) "Direct request" means a petition filed by an individual in a tribunal of Georgia in a proceeding involving an obligee, obligor, or child residing outside the United States.
(5) "Foreign central authority" means the entity designated by a foreign country described in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (5) of Code Section 19-11-101 to perform the functions specified in the convention.
(6) "Foreign support agreement":
  (A) Means an agreement for support in a record that:
    (i) Is enforceable as a support order in the country of origin;
    (ii) Has been:
      (I) Formally drawn up or registered as an authentic instrument by a foreign tribunal; or
      (II) Authenticated by, or concluded, registered, or filed with, a foreign tribunal; and
    (iii) May be reviewed and modified by a foreign tribunal; and
  (B) Includes a maintenance arrangement or authentic instrument under the convention.
(7) "United States central authority" means the secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 224,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
