# § 19-11-116. Governing tribunal when conflicting orders; determination of controlling order

(a) If a proceeding is brought under this article and only one tribunal has issued a child support order, the order of that tribunal controls and must be recognized.
(b) If a proceeding is brought under this article and two or more child support orders have been issued by tribunals of Georgia, another state, or a foreign country with regard to the same obligor and same child, a tribunal of Georgia having personal jurisdiction over both the obligor and individual obligee shall apply the following rules and by order shall determine which order controls and must be recognized:
  (1) If only one of the tribunals would have continuing, exclusive jurisdiction under this article, the order of that tribunal controls;
  (2) If more than one of the tribunals would have continuing, exclusive jurisdiction under this article:
    (A) An order issued by a tribunal in the current home state of the child controls; or
    (B) If an order has not been issued in the current home state of the child, the order most recently issued controls; or
  (3) If none of the tribunals would have continuing, exclusive jurisdiction under this article, the tribunal of Georgia shall issue a child support order, which controls.
(c) If two or more child support orders have been issued for the same obligor and same child, upon request of a party who is an individual or that is a support enforcement agency, a tribunal in Georgia having personal jurisdiction over both the obligor and the obligee who is an individual shall determine which order controls subsection (b) of this Code section. The request may be filed with a registration for enforcement or registration for modification pursuant to Part 6 of this article or may be filed as a separate proceeding.
(d) A request to determine which is the controlling order must be accompanied by a copy of every child support order in effect and the applicable record of payments. The requesting party shall give notice of the request to each party whose rights may be affected by the determination.
(e) The tribunal that issued the controlling order under subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this Code section has continuing jurisdiction to the extent provided in Code Sections 19-11-114 and 19-11-115.
(f) A tribunal of Georgia that determines by order which is the controlling order under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (b) or subsection (c) of this Code section or that issues a new controlling order under paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall state in that order:
  (1) The basis upon which the tribunal made its determination;
  (2) The amount of prospective support, if any; and
  (3) The total amount of consolidated arrears and accrued interest, if any, under all of the orders after all payments made are credited as provided by Code Section 19-11-118.
(g) Within 30 days after issuance of an order determining which is the controlling order, the party obtaining the order shall file a certified copy of it in each tribunal that issued or registered an earlier order of child support. A party or support enforcement agency obtaining the order that fails to file a certified copy is subject to appropriate sanctions by a tribunal in which the issue of failure to file arises. The failure to file does not affect the validity or enforceability of the controlling order.
(h) An order that has been determined to be the controlling order, or a judgment for consolidated arrears of support and interest, if any, made pursuant to this Code section must be recognized in proceedings under this article.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 224,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
