# § 19-11-39. Computerized central case registry for support orders

(a) The department shall create by contract, cooperative agreement, or otherwise a computerized central case registry for all support orders entered by any court or administrative tribunal of this state. All support orders obtained by the child support enforcement agency as well as those support orders not within the child support enforcement agency shall be registered in such data base. The department may enter into a cooperative agreement with the Administrative Office of the Courts so as to obtain information needed to create and maintain the state registry of support orders as required by federal law.
(b) The registry of orders shall include the following information for each case: the full names of each party and minor child, the date of birth and social security number for each such person, the last known address for each person at the time the order was entered, the name of the county in which the order was entered, any and all case identification numbers, including civil action filing numbers and child support enforcement agency assigned case numbers, and any such information as may be later required under federal law.
(c) In any case handled by the child support enforcement agency, the registry shall include payment records as well as the amount of child support liens. The payment record shall include:
  (1) The amount of monthly or other periodic support owed under the order and other amounts including arrearages, interest or late payment penalties, and fees due or overdue under the order;
  (2) Any amount described in paragraph (1) of this subsection that has been collected;
  (3) The distribution of such collected amounts;
  (4) The birth date of any child for whom the order requires the provision of support; and
  (5) The amount of any lien imposed with respect to a child support order.
(d) The state agency operating the state case registry shall promptly establish and update, maintain, and regularly monitor case records in the state case registry with respect to which services are being provided by the child support enforcement agency. Services to be monitored include: information on administrative actions and administrative and judicial proceedings and orders related to paternity and support; information obtained from comparison with federal, state, or local sources of information; information on support collections and distributions; and any other relevant information.
(e) The information contained in the state case registry shall be available to state and federal agencies as authorized by law for the enforcement of support orders. The information shall be available for data comparisons with case registries of other states.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 242,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 242,§ 1-26, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 579,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2014.
