# § 19-11-184.1. Request for registration

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this part, a party who is an individual or a support enforcement agency seeking recognition of a convention support order shall register the order in this state as provided in Part 6 of this article.
(b) Notwithstanding Code Sections 19-11-130 and subsection (a) of Code Section 19-11-161, a request for registration of a convention support order must be accompanied by:
  (1) A complete text of the support order or an abstract or extract of the support order drawn up by the issuing foreign tribunal, which may be in the form recommended by the Hague Conference on Private International Law;
  (2) A record stating that the support order is enforceable in the issuing country;
  (3) If the respondent did not appear and was not represented in the proceedings in the issuing country, a record attesting, as appropriate, either that the respondent had proper notice of the proceedings and an opportunity to be heard or that the respondent had proper notice of the support order and an opportunity to be heard in a challenge or appeal on fact or law before a tribunal;
  (4) A record showing the amount of arrears, if any, and the date the amount was calculated;
  (5) A record showing a requirement for automatic adjustment of the amount of support, if any, and the information necessary to make the appropriate calculations; and
  (6) If necessary, a record showing the extent to which the applicant received free legal assistance in the issuing country.
(c) A request for registration of a convention support order may seek recognition and partial enforcement of the order.
(d) A tribunal of Georgia may vacate the registration of a convention support order without the filing of a contest under Code Section 19-11-184.2 only if, acting on its own motion, the tribunal finds that recognition and enforcement of the order would be manifestly incompatible with public policy.
(e) The tribunal shall promptly notify the parties of the registration or the order vacating the registration of a convention support order.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 224,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
