# § 33-21A-7. Bundling of provider complaints and appeals

(a) In reviewing provider complaints or appeals related to denial of claims, a care management organization shall allow providers to consolidate complaints or appeals of multiple claims that involve the same or similar payment or coverage issues, regardless of the number of individual patients or payment claims included in the bundled complaint or appeal.
(b) Each care management organization shall allow a provider that has exhausted the care management organization's internal appeals process related to a denied or underpaid claim or group of claims bundled for appeal the option either to pursue the administrative review process described in subsection (e) of Code Section 49-4-153 or to select binding arbitration by a private arbitrator who is certified by a nationally recognized association that provides training and certification in alternative dispute resolution. If the care management organization and the provider are unable to agree on an association, the rules of the American Arbitration Association shall apply. The arbitrator shall have experience and expertise in the health care field and shall be selected according to the rules of his or her certifying association. Arbitration conducted pursuant to this Code section shall be binding on the parties. The arbitrator shall conduct a hearing and issue a final ruling within 90 days of being selected, unless the care management organization and the provider mutually agree to extend this deadline. All costs of arbitration, not including attorney's fees, shall be shared equally by the parties.
(c) For all claims that are initially denied or underpaid by a care management organization but eventually determined or agreed to have been owed by the care management organization to a provider of health care services, the care management organization shall pay, in addition to the amount determined to be owed, interest of 20 percent per annum, calculated from 15 days after the date the claim was submitted. A care management organization shall pay all interest required to be paid under this provision or Code Section 33-24-59.5 automatically and simultaneously whenever payment is made for the claim giving rise to the interest payment. All interest payments shall be accurately identified on the associated remittance advice submitted by the care management organization to the provider. A care management organization shall not be responsible for the penalty described in this subsection if the health care provider submits a claim containing a material omission or inaccuracy in any of the data elements required for a complete standard health care claim form as prescribed under 45 C.F.R. Part 162 for electronic claims, a CMS Form 1500 for nonelectronic claims, or any claim prescribed by the Department of Community Health.
(d) Each care management organization shall maintain a website that allows providers to submit, process, edit, rebill, and adjudicate claims electronically. To the extent a provider has the capability, each care management organization shall submit payments to providers electronically and submit remittance advices to providers electronically within one business day of when payment is made. To the extent that any of these functions involve covered transactions under 45 C.F.R. Section 162.900, et seq., then those transactions also shall be conducted in accordance with applicable federal requirements.
(e) Each care management organization shall post on its website a searchable list of all providers with which the care management organization has contracted. At a minimum, this list shall be searchable by provider name, specialty, and location. At a minimum, the list shall be updated once each month.
(f) The Department of Community Health shall require each care management organization to utilize the same timeframes and deadlines for submission, processing, payment, denial, adjudication, and appeal of Medicaid claims as the timeframes and deadlines that the Department of Community Health uses on claims it pays directly.
(g) No care management organization shall, as a condition of contracting with a provider, require that provider to participate or accept other plans or products offered by the care management organization unrelated to providing care to members. Any care management organization which violates this prohibition shall be subject to a penalty of $1,000.00 per violation. Such penalty shall be collected by the Department of Community Health. A care management organization shall not reduce the funding available for members as a result of payment of such penalties.
(h) No health care provider shall, as a condition of contracting with a care management organization, require that a care management organization contract with or not contract with another health care provider. Any health care provider which violates this subsection shall be subject to a penalty of $1,000.00 per violation. Such penalty shall be collected by the Department of Community Health. A health care provider shall not terminate an agreement with a care management organization as a result of payment of such penalties.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 585,§ 1, eff. 5/13/2008.
