# § 36-8-1. Election or appointment of county police; qualifications

(a) The county governing authority shall have authority to elect or appoint such number of county police as in its discretion it deems proper, provided that the county governing authority complies with the provisions of this Code section. Any person elected or appointed to the county police shall possess the qualifications prescribed in Code Section 35-8-8.
(b)
  (1) Each county governing authority may authorize, through proper resolution or ordinance, the creation of a county police force. No resolution or ordinance adopted pursuant to this paragraph shall become effective until the governing authority of the county has submitted to the qualified electors of the county the question of whether the resolution or ordinance shall be approved or rejected. The county governing authority shall establish the date of the election in compliance with Code Section 21-2-540, which shall be not less than 30 days after the call of the election, and shall notify the county election superintendent of its decision as to the date. The election superintendent shall issue the call for the election and shall specify that the election shall be held on the date determined by the county governing authority. The election superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date thereof in the official organ of the county. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the following: "() YESShall the resolution or ordinance adopted by the governing authority of (Name of County) to () NOcreate a county police force be approved?''
  (2) Those persons desiring to vote in favor of the creation of a county police force shall vote "Yes," and those persons opposed to the creation of a county police force shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast on the question are in favor of the creation of a county police force, then the county governing authority shall be authorized to create a county police force pursuant to the provisions of this chapter; otherwise, a county police force shall not be created. If the resolution or ordinance is rejected by the qualified electors, the question of the creation of a county police force may not again be submitted to the voters of the county within 48 months immediately following the month in which such election was held. The county election superintendent shall hold and conduct the election under the same rules and regulations as govern special elections, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection. He shall canvass the returns and declare and certify the result of the election to the Secretary of State. The expense of any such election shall be borne by the county wherein the election was held.
(c) The provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section shall not apply to any county which has created a county police force prior to January 1, 1992, which county police force remains in existence and operational.
(d) Any county police force created by a county governing authority between January 1, 1992, and February 25, 1992, shall be abolished no later than December 31, 1992, unless, prior to said latter date, a resolution or ordinance authorizing the creation of a county police force is adopted by the county governing authority and approved by the qualified electors of the county in a special election as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 36, eff. 7/29/2020.
