# § 44-14-160. Filing of foreclosure and deed under power; penalty for late payment

(a) Within 90 days of a foreclosure sale, all deeds under power shall be filed by the holder of a deed to secure debt or a mortgage with the clerk of the superior court of the county or counties in which the foreclosed property is located. The clerk shall record and cross reference the deed under power to the deed to secure debt or mortgage foreclosed upon. The deed under power shall be indexed pursuant to standards promulgated by the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority.
(b) In the event the deed under power is not filed within 30 days after the time period set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section, the holder shall be required to pay a late filing penalty of $500.00 upon filing in addition to the required filing fees provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 15-6-77. Such late filing penalty shall be collected by the clerk of the superior court before filing.
(c) The sums collected as a late filing penalty under subsection (b) of this Code section shall be remitted to the governing authority of the county. If the foreclosed property is located within a municipality, the governing authority of the county shall remit the late filing penalty for such property to the governing authority of such municipality within 30 days of its receipt of the penalty. For each late filing penalty for property located within the corporate limits of a municipality, the governing authority of the county may withhold a 5 percent administrative processing fee from the remittance to such municipality.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 562,§ 44, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 145,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 106,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
