# § 44-14-403. Lien of pawnbroker; action for interference; grace period on pawn transactions; extension or continuation of maturity date; redemption of goods after maturity date

(a) A pawnbroker shall have a lien on the pledged goods pawned for the money advanced, interest, and pawnshop charge owed but not for other debts due to him. He may retain possession of the pledged goods until his lien is satisfied and may have a right of action against anyone interfering therewith.
(b)
  (1) There shall be a grace period on all pawn transactions. On pawn transactions involving motor vehicles or motor vehicle certificates of title, the grace period shall be 30 calendar days; on all other pawn transactions the grace period shall be ten calendar days. In the event that the last day of the grace period falls on a day in which the pawnbroker is not open for business, the grace period shall be extended through the first day following upon which the pawnbroker is open for business. The pawnbroker shall not sell the pledged goods during the grace period.
  (2) By agreement of the parties, the maturity date of the pawn transaction may be extended or continued for 30 day periods, provided that the interest rates and charges as specified in Code Section 44-12-131 are not exceeded. The grace period shall begin running on the first day following the maturity date of the pawn transaction or on the first day following the expiration of any extension or continuation of the pawn transaction, whichever occurs later. All extensions or continuations of the pawn transaction shall be evidenced in writing.
  (3) Pledged goods may be redeemed by the pledgor or seller within the grace period by the payment of any unpaid accrued fees and charges, the repayment of the principal, and the payment of an additional interest charge not to exceed 12.5 percent of the principal. Pledged goods not redeemed within the grace period shall be automatically forfeited to the pawnbroker by operation of this Code section, and any ownership interest of the pledgor or seller shall automatically be extinguished as regards the pledged item.
  (4) Any attempt to circumvent the interest rates and charges as specified in Code Section 44-12-131 shall be null and void. A pawn transaction shall be considered to have been extended or continued unless:
    (A) All charges, fees, and the principal have actually been paid or repaid on the previous pawn transaction;
    (B) The pledged goods in the previous transaction, including but not limited to a motor vehicle certificate of title, have actually been restored to the possession of the pledgor or seller; and
    (C) The pledged goods in the previous transaction have been removed from the business premises of the pawnbroker and, in the case of a motor vehicle certificate of title, any lien on the motor vehicle certificate of title has been removed or released.
