# § 44-14-361. Creation of liens; property to which lien attaches; items to be included in lien

(a) The following persons shall each have a special lien on the real estate, factories, railroads, or other property for which they furnish labor, services, or materials:
  (1) All mechanics of every sort who have taken no personal security for work done and material furnished in building, repairing, or improving any real estate of their employers;
  (2) All contractors, all subcontractors and all materialmen furnishing material to subcontractors, and all laborers furnishing labor to subcontractors, materialmen, and persons furnishing material for the improvement of real estate;
  (3) All registered architects furnishing plans, drawings, designs, or other architectural services on or with respect to any real estate;
  (4) All registered foresters performing or furnishing services on or with respect to any real estate;
  (5) All registered land surveyors and registered professional engineers performing or furnishing services on or with respect to any real estate;
  (6) All contractors, all subcontractors and materialmen furnishing material to subcontractors, and all laborers furnishing labor for subcontractors for building factories, furnishing material for factories, or furnishing machinery for factories;
  (7) All machinists and manufacturers of machinery, including corporations engaged in such business, who may furnish or put up any mill or other machinery in any county or who may repair the same;
  (8) All contractors to build railroads;
  (9) All suppliers furnishing rental tools, appliances, machinery, or equipment for the improvement of real estate; and
  (10) All registered interior designers furnishing plans, drawings, designs, or other interior design services on or with respect to any real estate.
(b) Each special lien specified in subsection (a) of this Code section may attach to the real estate of the owner for which the labor, services, or materials are furnished if they are furnished at the instance of the owner, contractor, or some other person acting for the owner or contractor and shall include the value of work done and materials furnished in any easement or public right of way adjoining said real estate if the work done or materials furnished in the easement or public right of way is for the benefit of said real estate and is within the scope of the owner's contract for improvements to said real estate.
(c) Each special lien specified in subsection (a) of this Code section shall include the amount due and owing the lien claimant under the terms of its express or implied contract, subcontract, or purchase order subject to subsection (e) of Code Section 44-14-361.1.
(d) Each special lien specified in subsection (a) of this Code section shall include interest on the principal amount due in accordance with Code Section 7-4-2 or 7-4-16.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 277,§ 3, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 340,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 744,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
