# § 44-14-233. Answer; reopening the default; granting writ upon default; trial; order to turn over property to sheriff or other

(a) If the defendant fails to answer on or before the date provided in subsection (b) of Code Section 44-14-232, the defendant may reopen the default as a matter of right by making an answer within seven days after the date of the default notwithstanding the provisions of Code Section 9-11-55. If the seventh day is a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday, the answer may be made on the next day which is not a Saturday, a Sunday, or a legal holiday.
(b) If the defendant fails to answer or open the default, the court shall grant a writ of possession and, if otherwise permitted by this part, the plaintiff shall be entitled to a verdict and a judgment by default in open court or in chambers and without the intervention of a jury for all of the amount due, together with costs, as if every item and paragraph of the affidavit provided for in Code Section 44-14-231 were supported by proper evidence.
(c) The defendant may answer either in writing or orally. If the defendant answers orally, the substance thereof shall be endorsed by the court on the petition. The answer may contain any legal or equitable defense or counterclaim. If the defendant answers, a trial of the issues shall be had in accordance with the procedure prescribed for civil actions in courts of record. Every effort shall be made by the trial court to expedite a trial of the issues and place the case on the next available calendar. However, the trial shall not be held before seven days have elapsed from the date the defendant files his answer. The defendant shall be allowed to remain in possession of the secured property pending the final outcome of the litigation, provided that the defendant complies with Code Section 44-14-234.
(d) The court shall issue an order directing the defendant or person in possession of property sought to be foreclosed to turn over said property to the sheriff, marshal, constable, or their lawful deputies whenever that court issues a writ of possession for personal property pursuant to this part.
(e) A suggested form for the order authorized under subsection (d) of this Code section is as follows: "IN THE __________________ COURT OF __________________ COUNTY STATE OF GEORGIA(Style of case)CIVIL ACTIONNO. __________________ORDERA writ of possession having been issued against the defendant for personal property to be foreclosed upon, it is:ORDERED that the defendant or the party in possession of the property specified in that writ of possession be and that person is hereby directed to turn over to the sheriff, marshal, or constable of __________________ County or his lawful deputies, or to any sheriff, marshal, or constable of this state or their lawful deputies, the (describe property), instanter, or advise said officer of the location of the property if same is not in defendant's possession.SO ORDERED, this __________________ day of __________________, __________________.__________________JUDGEPRESENTED BY:__________________Attorney's nameand address"
