# § 44-14-368. Notice of contest of lien

(a) An owner or an owner's agent or attorney, or the contractor or contractor's agent or attorney, may elect to shorten the time prescribed in which to commence a lien action to enforce any claim of lien by recording in the superior court clerk's office a notice in substantially the following form, in boldface capital letters in at least 12 point font, along with proof of delivery upon the lien claimant: "NOTICE OF CONTEST OF LIENTO: [NAME AND ADDRESS OF LIEN CLAIMANT]YOU ARE NOTIFIED THAT THE UNDERSIGNED CONTESTS THE CLAIM OF LIEN FILED BY YOU ON __________________ 20 __________________, AND RECORDED IN __________________ BOOK __________________, PAGE __________________ OF THE PUBLIC RECORDS OF __________________ COUNTY, GEORGIA, AGAINST PROPERTY OWNED BY __________________, AND THAT THE TIME WITHIN WHICH YOU MAY COMMENCE A LIEN ACTION TO ENFORCE YOUR LIEN IS LIMITED TO 60 DAYS FROM RECEIPT OF THIS NOTICE. THIS __________________ DAY OF __________________, 20__________________.THIS ABOVE-REFERENCED LIEN WILL EXPIRE AND BE VOID IF YOU DO NOT:
  (1)COMMENCE A LIEN ACTION FOR RECOVERY OF THE AMOUNT OF THE LIEN CLAIM PURSUANT TO O.C.G.A. SECTION 44-14-361.1 WITHIN 60 DAYS FROM RECEIPT OF THIS NOTICE; AND
  (2)FILE A NOTICE OF COMMENCEMENT OF LIEN ACTION WITHIN 30 DAYS OF FILING THE ABOVE-REFERENCED LIEN ACTION.SIGNED: __________________ (OWNER, CONTRACTOR, AGENT OR ATTORNEY)"
(b) The clerk of the superior court shall cross-reference the notice of contest of lien to the lien. The owner or his or her agent or attorney, or the contractor or his or her agent or attorney, shall send a copy of the notice of contest of lien within seven days of filing by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the lien claimant at the address noted on the face of the lien. Service shall be deemed complete upon mailing.
(c) The lien shall be extinguished by law 90 days after the filing of the notice of contest of lien if no notice of commencement of lien action is filed in that time period. No release or voiding of such liens shall be required. This subsection shall not be construed to extend the time in which a lien action must begin.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 766,§ 7, eff. 3/31/2009.
