# § 40-5-120. Unlawful use of license or identification card; penalties for violations of chapter generally

(1) Display or cause or permit to be displayed or have in his or her possession any canceled, revoked, or suspended driver's license or identification card issued pursuant to Code Section 40-5-100;
(2) Fail or refuse to surrender to the department upon lawful demand any driver's license or identification card issued pursuant to Code Section 40-5-100 which has been suspended, revoked, disqualified, or canceled;
(3) Permit any unlawful use of a driver's license or identification card issued pursuant to Code Section 40-5-100 issued to such person;
(4) Do any act forbidden or fail to perform any act required by this chapter for which a criminal sanction is not provided elsewhere in this chapter; or
(5) Scan another person's driver's license, permit, or identification card without the person's prior knowledge and consent. If a person consents to the scanning of his or her driver's license, permit, or identification card, the information collected may be stored and used for any legitimate purpose. Each unlawful act of storage, disclosure, or usage in violation of this paragraph shall be considered a separate violation of this Code section. This prohibition shall not apply to law enforcement officers or any governmental entity that scans a driver's license, permit, or identification card to verify the contents thereof or to gather information for use for any governmental purpose.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 633,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2010.
