# § 40-5-23. Classes of licenses

(a) The department upon issuing a driver's license shall indicate thereon the type or general class of vehicles that the licensee may drive.
(b) Subject to this chapter, the commissioner shall establish by rules and regulations such qualifications, including but not limited to, training, experience, or educational prerequisites, as he or she believes are necessary for the safe operation of the various types, sizes, or combinations of vehicles and shall appropriately examine each applicant to determine his or her qualification according to the type or general class of license applied for.
(c) The noncommercial classes of motor vehicles for which operators may be licensed shall be as follows:
  (1) Class C:
    (A) Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating not in excess of 26,000 pounds, any such vehicle towing a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating not in excess of 10,000 pounds, or any such vehicle towing a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating in excess of 10,000 pounds, provided that any combination of vehicles set forth in this subparagraph has a gross combined vehicle weight rating not in excess of 26,000 pounds;
    (B) Any three-wheeled motor vehicle that is equipped with a steering wheel for directional control; and
    (C) Any self-propelled or towed vehicle that is equipped to serve as temporary living quarters for recreational, camping, or travel purposes and is used solely as a family or personal conveyance regardless of the gross vehicle weight rating or combined gross vehicle weight rating;
  (2) Class D: Provisional license applicable to noncommercial Class C vehicles for which an applicant desires a driver's license but is not presently licensed to drive;
  (3) Class E: Any combination of vehicles with a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more, provided that the gross vehicle weight rating of the vehicle or vehicles being towed is in excess of 10,000 pounds and the vehicle or vehicles are operated by a farmer to transport agricultural products, livestock, farm machinery, or farm supplies to or from a farm and are not used in the operations of a common or contract carrier;
  (4) Class F: Any single vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of 26,001 pounds or more or any such vehicle towing a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating not in excess of 10,000 pounds;
  (5) Class M: Motorcycles, motor driven cycles, and three-wheeled motorcycles equipped with handlebars for directional control; and
  (6) Class P: Instruction permit applicable to all types of vehicles for which an applicant desires a driver's license but is not presently licensed to drive.
(d) Any applicant for a Class E or Class F license shall possess a valid Georgia driver's license for Class C vehicles. A license issued pursuant to this Code section shall not be a commercial driver's license.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 550,§ 6, eff. 5/2/2024.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 55,§ 2A, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 633,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 40, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 614,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 164,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
