# § 40-5-144. Notice required by driver of commercial vehicle of certain convictions or license restrictions; information required to be provided to prospective employer

(a) Any driver of a commercial motor vehicle holding a license issued by this state who is convicted of violating any state law or local ordinance relating to motor vehicle traffic control in any other state or any federal, provincial, territorial, or municipal laws of Canada relating to motor vehicle traffic control, other than parking violations, shall notify the department in the manner specified by the department within 30 days of the date of conviction. If the court notifies the department of such conviction, the responsibility of the driver to notify the department shall be waived.
(b) Any driver of a commercial motor vehicle holding a license issued by this state who is convicted of violating any state law or local ordinance relating to motor vehicle traffic control in this or any other state or any federal, provincial, territorial, or municipal laws of Canada relating to motor vehicle traffic control, other than parking violations, shall notify his or her employer in writing of the conviction within 30 days of the date of conviction.
(c) Each driver whose driver's license is suspended, revoked, or canceled by any state; who loses the privilege to drive a commercial motor vehicle in any state for any period; or who is disqualified from driving a commercial motor vehicle for any period shall notify his or her employer of that fact before the end of the business day following the day the driver received notice of that fact.
(d) Each person who applies to be a commercial motor vehicle driver shall, at the time of the application, provide the employer with the following information for the ten years preceding the date of application:
  (1) A list of the names and addresses of the applicant's previous employers for which the applicant was a driver of a commercial motor vehicle;
  (2) The dates between which the applicant drove for each employer; and
  (3) The reason for leaving that employer. The applicant shall certify that all information furnished is true and complete. An employer may require an applicant to provide additional information.
