# § 40-5-30. Restricted licenses

(a) Upon issuing a driver's license, the department shall have authority, whenever good cause appears, to impose restrictions suitable to the licensee's driving ability with respect to special mechanical control devices required on a motor vehicle which the licensee may operate or such other restrictions applicable to the licensee as the department may determine to be appropriate to assure the safe operation of a motor vehicle by the licensee. The commissioner may promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to implement this Code section.
(b) The department may either issue a special restricted license or set forth such restrictions upon the usual license form.
(c) No person shall operate a motor vehicle in any manner in violation of the restrictions imposed in a restricted license issued to him or her; provided, however, that at the time of the hearing on such offense, if such person was charged with driving in violation of a restriction requiring that he or she wear eyeglasses or contact lenses, such person shall not be guilty of such offense if he or she presents the trial court with admissible medical or other evidence sufficient to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the trial court that he or she no longer suffers from the vision condition that resulted in the imposition of such restriction.
(d) Upon a person being convicted of a violation of this Code section, the court may order the department to suspend such person's license for a period not to exceed six months. The court shall determine the length of such suspension and shall report such suspension and the length thereof to the department. The department shall reinstate the license at the end of the suspension period upon receipt of a reinstatement fee of $210.00 or $200.00 if paid by mail.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 625,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 623,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 135,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 590,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2006.
