# § 40-5-171. Issuance and contents of identification cards for persons with disabilities

(a) The department shall issue identification cards to persons with disabilities who make application to the department in accordance with rules and regulations prescribed by the commissioner. The identification card for persons with disabilities shall contain a recent photograph of the applicant and the following information:
  (1) Full legal name;
  (2) Address of residence;
  (3) Birth date;
  (4) Date identification card was issued;
  (5) Date identification card expires;
  (6) Sex;
  (7) Height;
  (8) Weight;
  (9) Eye color;
  (10) Signature of person identified or facsimile thereof; and
  (11) Such other information as required by the department; provided, however, that the department shall not require an applicant to submit or otherwise obtain from an applicant any fingerprints or any other biological characteristic or information which uniquely identifies an individual, including without limitation deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA) and retinal scan identification characteristics but not including a photograph, by any means upon application.
(b) The identification card for persons with disabilities shall bear the signatures of the commissioner and the Governor and shall bear an identification card number which shall not be the same as the applicant's social security number.
(c) In addition to the information required in subsection (a) of this Code section, identification cards issued to persons with disabilities shall display the international handicapped symbol on a location designated by the department. The department may display the international handicapped symbol on any driver's license or identification card issued pursuant to the provisions of this chapter upon receipt of the required documentation from the person requesting its inclusion.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 21,§ 4-23, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 633,§ 21, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 434,§ 14, eff. 1/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 355,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2006.
