# § 40-5-172. Term of card issued to person with permanent disability; issuance to person with temporary disability; renewal

(a) An identification card for persons with disabilities shall be issued to a person with a permanent disability for a period of eight years and shall be renewable on the applicant's birthday in the seventh year following such issuance. Such identification cards shall be issued to persons:
  (1) With obvious permanent disabilities without further verification of disability; and
  (2) With disabilities which are not obvious upon presentation of the current sworn affidavit of at least one medical doctor attesting to such permanent disability. A current affidavit shall be presented at each request for renewal.
(b) The identification card for persons with disabilities shall be issued to a person with a temporary disability upon presentation of a sworn affidavit of at least one medical doctor attesting to such disability and estimating the duration of such disability. Such identification cards shall be issued for periods of six months. A current affidavit of a medical doctor attesting to the continuance of such disability shall be presented at each request for renewal thereafter.
(c) The commissioner may by rule authorize renewal of an identification card issued to a person with a permanent disability by means other than personal appearance. No further documentation of such person's disability shall be required for such renewal.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 449,§ 11, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 89,§ 17, eff. 1/1/2012.
