# § 40-5-32. Expiration and renewal of licenses; reexamination required; electronic renewal notices

(a)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, every driver's license shall expire on the licensee's birthday in the eighth year following the issuance of such license. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any commercial driver's license that contains an H or X endorsement as defined in subsection (c) of Code Section 40-5-150 shall expire on the date of expiration of the licensee's security threat assessment conducted by the Transportation Security Administration of the United States Department of Homeland Security.
  (2) Except as otherwise provided by subsection (c) of this Code section, every veteran's, honorary, or distinctive license shall expire on the licensee's birthday in the eighth year following the issuance thereof. The department may allow a veteran, honorary, or distinctive license holder to retain his or her expired veteran's, honorary, or distinctive license as a souvenir.
  (3) Every driver's license shall be renewed on or before its expiration date upon application, payment of the required fee, and, if applicable, satisfactory completion of the examination required by subsection (c) of this Code section. Nothing in this Code section shall be interpreted as affecting the rights and privileges of any person holding a veteran's, honorary, or distinctive license, or authorizing the imposition of a charge or fee for the issuance or renewal of such licenses.
  (4) The commissioner shall issue such rules and regulations as are required to enforce this subsection.
(b) An application for driver's license renewal may be submitted by means of:
  (1) Personal appearance before the department; or
  (2) Subject to rules or regulations of the department which shall be consistent with considerations of public safety and efficiency of service to licensees, means other than such personal appearance which may include without limitation by mail or electronically. The department may by such rules or regulations exempt persons renewing drivers' licenses under this paragraph from the license surrender requirement of subsection (c) of Code Section 40-5-20.
(c)
  (1) The department shall require every person who is age 64 or older applying for issuance or renewal of a driver's license to take and pass successfully such test of his or her eyesight as the department shall prescribe.
  (2) The commissioner may issue such rules and regulations as are necessary to implement this subsection.
(d)
  (1) Notice of driver's license renewal issued by the department pursuant to this Code section shall be satisfied by electronic means when:
    (A) The license holder consents to receive notifications and communications electronically pursuant to the conditions set forth in paragraph (2) of this subsection; and
    (B) The department includes any record of transmission of any electronic notification or communication to the license holder in the records of the department for such license holder.
  (2) The department shall be authorized to utilize electronic notifications and communications for any license holder who agrees to a statement which reads: "I AGREE TO RECEIVE ALL NOTIFICATIONS AND COMMUNICATIONS FOR DRIVER'S LICENSE RENEWALS ELECTRONICALLY."
  (3) If the department becomes aware that an electronic notification or communication was not transmitted to a license holder, the department shall send the notification or communication as otherwise required by applicable law.
  (4) The department shall retain a record pursuant to Chapter 12 of Title 10, the "Uniform Electronic Transactions Act," of any electronic notification or communication sent pursuant to this subsection. Such record shall be retrievable by the department for a period of ten years after the date such electronic notification or communication was sent.
  (5) A license holder may withdraw his or her consent to receive notifications and communications by electronic means upon a method established by the department for such purpose pursuant to rule or regulation.
  (6) Any notification or communication sent by electronic means pursuant to this subsection shall comply with the requirements set forth in Chapter 12 of Title 10, the "Uniform Electronic Transactions Act."

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 406,§ 7, eff. 4/22/2024.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 449,§ 7, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 633,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 17-10, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 582, § 5, eff. 7/1/2004.
