# § 40-5-148.3. Submission of medical examiner's certificate; penalty for false submissions

(a) Any person applying for issuance or renewal of a commercial driver's license shall submit a certification of his or her type of driving and a current medical examiner's certificate to the department as required by 49 C.F.R. Parts 383 and 391. Receipt of such current medical examiner's certificate shall be reflected upon such person's driving record and posted to his or her CDLIS driver record as his or her medical certification status.
(b) Upon the expiration of the medical examiner's certificate submitted to the department pursuant to this Code section, the department shall update the medical certification status of such person on his or her driving record and his or her CDLIS driving record. The department shall notify such person of the change of his or her medical certification status and advise such person that he or she will be disqualified from operating a commercial motor vehicle indefinitely if such person does not submit a current medical examiner's certificate to the department within 60 days. Such notice shall be sent via certified mail or such other delivery service obtained by the department that results in delivery confirmation to the address reflected on its records as the driver's mailing address.
(c) A commercial driving disqualification imposed as the result of the expiration of a medical examiner's certificate shall be reinstated, and changes to a person's medical certification status shall be updated, upon receipt of a current medical examiner's certificate.
(d) The department shall suspend the commercial driving privilege or commercial driver's license of any person who submits a medical examiner's certificate containing false information. The period of such suspension shall be 60 days.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 89,§ 16, eff. 1/1/2012.
