# § 40-5-76. Court ordered reinstatement or suspension of license or issuance of limited driving permit or ignition interlock device limited driving permit; time credited toward fulfillment of period of license suspension

(a)
  (1) A judge presiding in a drug court division, mental health court division, veterans court division, or operating under the influence court division, as a reward or sanction to the defendant's behavior in such court division, may order the department to:
    (A) Reinstate a defendant's Georgia driver's license that has been or should be suspended under the laws of this state;
    (B) Issue to a defendant a limited driving permit using the guidance set forth in subsections (c), (c.1), and (d) of Code Section 40-5-64 or with whatever conditions the court determines to be appropriate under the circumstances;
    (C) Issue to a defendant an ignition interlock device limited driving permit using the guidance set forth in subsections (c) and (e) of Code Section 40-5-64.1 or with whatever conditions the court determines to be appropriate under the circumstances; or
    (D) Suspend or revoke such license, limited driving permit, or ignition interlock device limited driving permit.
  (2) The court shall require the defendant to pay to the department the fee normally required for the reinstatement of such driver's license or issuance of such limited driving permit or ignition interlock device limited driving permit or waive such fee.
  (3) The court may order the department to issue to a defendant a limited driving permit or ignition interlock device limited driving permit pursuant to this subsection for a one-year period, and may allow such permit to be renewed for a one-year period, and shall provide the department with such order.
(b) If the offense for which the defendant was convicted did not directly relate to the operation of a motor vehicle, a judge presiding in any court, other than the court divisions specified in subsection (a) of this Code section, may order the department to reinstate a defendant's driver's license that has been or should be suspended, issue to a defendant a limited driving permit using the guidance set forth in subsections (c), (c.1), and (d) of Code Section 40-5-64, or issue to a defendant an ignition interlock device limited driving permit using the guidance set forth in subsections (c) and (e) of Code Section 40-5-64.1. The court shall require the defendant to pay to the department the fee normally required for the reinstatement of such driver's license or issuance of such limited driving permit or ignition interlock device limited driving permit or waive such fee. Such judge may also order the department to suspend a defendant's driver's license, limited driving permit, or ignition interlock device limited driving permit as a consequence of the defendant's violation of the terms of his or her probation.
(c)
  (1) The department shall make a notation on a person's driving record when his or her driver's license was reinstated or suspended or he or she was issued a limited driving permit or ignition interlock device limited driving permit under this Code section, and such information shall be made available in accordance with Code Section 40-5-2.
  (2) The driver's license of any person who has a driver's license reinstated or suspended in accordance with this Code section shall remain subject to any applicable disqualifications specified in Article 7 of this chapter.
(d) The department shall credit any time during which a defendant was issued a limited driving permit or ignition interlock device limited driving permit under subsection (a) of this Code section toward the fulfillment of the period of a driver's license suspension for which such permit was issued.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 416,§ 2-10, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 4-8, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 408,§ 2-6, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 483,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 476,§ 1-5, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 84,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2013.
