# § 40-5-36. Veterans' licenses, honorary licenses, and other distinctive licenses

(a) Except as specifically provided in this chapter, no part of this chapter shall be interpreted as affecting the rights and privileges of a person holding a veteran's, honorary, or distinctive license, and nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to authorize the department to impose any charge or fee of any type whatsoever for the issuance or renewal of a veteran's, honorary, or distinctive license; provided, however, that the commissioner may issue regulations on types and classes of vehicles which may be operated by the holder of such license.
(b) The commissioner shall establish by rules and regulations the proof required to be produced by an applicant for a veteran's, honorary, or distinctive license. The contents of such license shall be the same as for any other license. The forms upon which such licenses are issued shall be such that the licenses are of a permanent nature, provided that nothing in this subsection shall authorize the department to require any person holding a veteran's or honorary license before January 1, 1976, to surrender such license. Veterans', honorary, and distinctive licenses shall not be subject to any fees.
(c) Veterans' licenses may be issued to:
  (1) Veterans who are residents of Georgia at the time of application for the license who served in the active military, naval, or air service and who were discharged or released therefrom under conditions other than dishonorable;
  (2) All members or former members of the National Guard or reserve forces who served on active duty or who have 20 or more years' creditable service therein; and
  (3) Veterans who are United States citizens and residents of this state at the time of application for the license and who served on active duty in the armed forces of an ally of the United States during wartime or any conflict when personnel were committed by the President of the United States, whether or not such veteran was assigned to a unit or division which directly participated in such war or conflict and who were discharged or separated under honorable conditions.
(d) Honorary licenses may be issued to:
  (1) A resident of Georgia who is the surviving spouse of a veteran as defined by paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of this Code section. Any license to such spouse shall be valid only as long as that person remains unmarried; or
  (2) A resident of Georgia who is the spouse of a veteran who would be qualified to receive a veteran's license but who is disabled to the extent that he or she cannot operate a motor vehicle.
(e) A distinctive license may be issued to any member of the Georgia National Guard in good standing who has completed at least one year of satisfactory service. The department shall have the authority to cancel the distinctive license of any person upon receipt of written notice from the adjutant general who shall notify the department that the person is no longer a member of the Georgia National Guard in good standing.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 23,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 568,§ 2, eff. 8/4/2020.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 521, § 10, eff. 7/1/2004.
