# § 40-5-22.1. Reinstatement after delinquency adjudication for driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs for child under 16 years of age

Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if a child under 16 years of age is adjudicated delinquent of driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs or convicted in any other court of such offenses, the court shall order that the privilege of such child to apply for and be issued a driver's license or instruction permit shall be suspended and delayed until such child is 17 years of age for a first conviction and until such child is 18 years of age for a second or subsequent such conviction. Upon reaching the required age, such license privilege shall be reinstated if the child submits proof of completion of a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program or an assessment and intervention program approved by the juvenile court and pays a reinstatement fee to the department. The reinstatement fee for a first such conviction shall be $210.00 or $200.00 if paid by mail. The reinstatement fee for a second such conviction shall be $310.00 or $300.00 if paid by mail. The reinstatement fee for a third or subsequent such conviction shall be $410.00 or $400.00 if paid by mail. The court shall notify the department of its order delaying the issuance of such child's license within 15 days of the date of such order. The department shall not issue a driver's license or instruction permit to any person contrary to a court order issued pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 4-2, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 135,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 17-5, eff. 7/1/2005.
