# § 40-5-84. Reinstatement of licenses suspended for certain offenses or for points

(a) Except as otherwise provided, the license of any person whose license is suspended for the first time as a result of the conviction of an offense listed in Code Section 40-5-54 shall, at the expiration of 120 days following the date the license is suspended, be reinstated by the department upon receipt by the department of a certificate of completion of an approved defensive driving course and the payment of a restoration fee of $210.00 or $200.00 when such reinstatement is processed by mail.
(b) The license of any person whose license is suspended for the second time as a result of the conviction of an offense listed in Code Section 40-5-54 shall, at the expiration of 120 days following the date the license is suspended, be reinstated by the department upon receipt by the department of a certificate of completion of a defensive driving course approved by the department and the payment of a restoration fee of $310.00 or $300.00 when such reinstatement is processed by mail.
(c) The license of any person whose license is suspended for the first time within a five-year period as a result of the assessment of points pursuant to Code Section 40-5-57 shall be reinstated by the department immediately upon receipt by the department of a certificate of completion of an approved defensive driving course and the payment of a restoration fee of $210.00 or $200.00 when such reinstatement is processed by mail.
(d) The license of any person whose license is suspended for the second time within a five-year period as a result of the assessment of points pursuant to Code Section 40-5-57 shall be reinstated by the department immediately upon receipt by the department of a certificate of completion of an approved defensive driving course and the payment of a restoration fee of $310.00 or $300.00 when such reinstatement is processed by mail.
(e) The license of any person whose license is suspended for the third or subsequent time within a five-year period as a result of the assessment of points pursuant to Code Section 40-5-57 shall be reinstated by the department upon receipt by the department of a certificate of completion of a defensive driving course approved by the department and the payment of a restoration fee of $410.00 or $400.00 when such reinstatement is processed by mail.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 624,§ 1-17, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 89,§ 13, eff. 1/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 135,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 353, § 5, eff. 7/1/2003.
