# § 40-5-24. Instruction permits; graduated licensing and related restrictions; temporary licenses

(a)
  (1)
    (A) Any resident of this state who is at least 15 years of age may apply to the department for an instruction permit to operate a noncommercial Class C vehicle. The department shall, after the applicant has successfully passed all parts of the examination referred to in Code Section 40-5-27 other than the driving test, issue to the applicant an instruction permit which shall entitle the applicant, while having such permit in his or her immediate possession, to drive a Class C vehicle upon the public highways for a period of two years when accompanied by a person at least 21 years of age who is licensed as a driver for a commercial or noncommercial Class C vehicle, who is fit and capable of exercising control over the vehicle, and who is occupying a seat beside the driver.
    (B) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, any person holding a valid Class C instruction permit may drive a Class C motor vehicle when accompanied by a disabled parent or guardian who has been issued an identification card containing the international handicapped symbol pursuant to Article 8 of this chapter.
  (2) This subsection does not apply to instruction permits for the operation of motorcycles.
(b)
  (1)
    (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, any resident of this state who is at least 16 years of age and who, for a period of at least 12 months, had a valid instruction permit issued under subsection (a) of this Code section may apply to the department for a Class D driver's license to operate a noncommercial Class C vehicle if such resident has:
      (i) For a period of not less than 12 consecutive months prior to making application for a Class D driver's license, not been convicted of a violation of Code Section 40-6-391, hit and run or leaving the scene of an accident in violation of Code Section 40-6-270, racing on highways or streets in violation of Code Section 40-6-186, using a motor vehicle in fleeing or attempting to elude an officer in violation of Code Section 40-6-395, reckless driving in violation of Code Section 40-6-390, reckless stunt driving in violation of Code Section 40-6-390.1, or convicted of any offense for which four or more points are assessable under subsection (c) of Code Section 40-5-57; and
      (ii) Completed the requisite courses and supervised driving experience set forth in subsection (a.2) of Code Section 40-5-22.
    (B) Any resident at least 17 years of age who has at any age surrendered to the department a valid instruction permit or driver's license issued by another state or the District of Columbia or who has submitted to the department proof, to the satisfaction of the department, of a valid instruction permit or driver's license issued by another state or the District of Columbia may apply his or her driving record under such previously issued permit or driver's license toward meeting the eligibility requirements for a Class D driver's license the same as if such previously issued permit or driver's license were an instruction permit issued under subsection (a) of this Code section.
  (2) The department shall, after all applicable requirements have been met, issue to the applicant a Class D driver's license which shall entitle the applicant, while having such license in his or her immediate possession, to drive a Class C vehicle upon the public highways of this state under the following conditions:
    (A) Any Class D license holder shall not drive a Class C motor vehicle on the public roads, streets, or highways of this state between the hours of 12:00 Midnight and 5:00 A.M. eastern standard time or eastern daylight time, whichever is applicable; and
    (B)
      (i) Any Class D license holder shall not drive a Class C motor vehicle upon the public roads, streets, or highways of this state when more than three other passengers in the vehicle who are not members of the driver's immediate family are less than 21 years of age.
      (ii) During the six-month period immediately following issuance of such license, any Class D license holder shall not drive a Class C motor vehicle upon the public roads, streets, or highways of this state when any other passenger in the vehicle is not a member of the driver's immediate family.
      (iii) Notwithstanding the provisions of division (i) of this subparagraph, during the second six-month period immediately following issuance of such license, any Class D license holder shall not drive a Class C motor vehicle upon the public roads, streets, or highways of this state when more than one other passenger in the vehicle who is not a member of the driver's immediate family is less than 21 years of age; provided, however, that a Class D license holder shall not be charged with a violation of this paragraph alone but may be charged with violating this paragraph in addition to any other traffic offense.
    (C) For purposes of this paragraph, the term "immediate family" shall include the license holder's parents and stepparents, grandparents, siblings and stepsiblings, children, and any other person who resides at the license holder's residence.
  (3) A person who has been issued a Class D driver's license under this subsection and has never been issued a Class C driver's license under this chapter will become eligible for a Class C driver's license under this chapter only if such person has a valid Class D driver's license which is not under suspension and, for a period of not less than 12 consecutive months prior to making application for a Class C driver's license, has not been convicted of a violation of Code Section 40-6-391, hit and run or leaving the scene of an accident in violation of Code Section 40-6-270, racing on highways or streets in violation of Code Section 40-6-186, using a motor vehicle in fleeing or attempting to elude an officer in violation of Code Section 40-6-395, reckless driving in violation of Code Section 40-6-390, reckless stunt driving in violation of Code Section 40-6-390.1, or convicted of any offense for which four or more points are assessable under subsection (c) of Code Section 40-5-57 and is at least 18 years of age; provided, however, that any person at least 17 years of age who provides proof of military enlistment and meets all other qualifications of this paragraph, except that such person has held a Class D driver's license for a period of less than 12 consecutive months, shall be eligible for a Class C driver's license.
(c) Any resident of this state who is at least 17 years of age may apply to the department for a noncommercial Class M motorcycle instruction permit. The department shall, after the applicant has successfully passed all parts of the examination other than the driving test, issue to the applicant an instruction permit which shall entitle the applicant, while having such permit in his or her immediate possession, to drive a motorcycle or a motor driven cycle upon the public highways for a period of six months; provided, however, that a person who is at least 16 years of age and meets all of the other qualifications of this subsection except for age who has completed a driver education training course may apply for a Class M motorcycle instruction permit. A motorcycle instruction permit shall not be valid when carrying passengers, on a limited access highway, or at night.
(d) Any resident of this state who is at least 18 years of age may apply to the department for an instruction permit to operate noncommercial vehicles in Classes E and F. Such permits may be issued only to persons with valid commercial or noncommercial Class C licenses or persons who have passed all required tests for a commercial or noncommercial Class C license. The department shall, after the applicant has successfully passed all parts of the appropriate examination other than the skill and driving test, issue to the applicant an instruction permit which shall entitle the applicant, while having the permit in his or her immediate possession, to operate a vehicle of the appropriate noncommercial class upon the public highways for a period of 12 months when accompanied by a licensed driver, qualified in the vehicle being operated, who is fit and capable of exercising control over the vehicle, and who is occupying a seat beside the driver as an instructor. Prior to being issued a driver's license for Classes E and F, the applicant shall pass a knowledge and skill test for driving a Class E or F vehicle as provided by the commissioner.
(e) The department shall issue a temporary driver's permit to an applicant for a driver's license permitting him or her to operate a specified type or class of motor vehicle while the department is completing its investigation and determination of all facts relative to such applicant's eligibility to receive a driver's license. Such permit must be in his or her immediate possession while operating a motor vehicle, and it shall be invalid when the applicant's license has been issued or for good cause has been refused. Such permit shall be valid for no more than 45 days. When a license has been refused, the permit shall be returned to the department within ten days of receipt of written notice of refusal.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 513,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 196,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 40, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 567,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 89,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 633,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 394,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 553,§ 3, eff. 4/21/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 401,§ 4, eff. 5/10/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 30, § 1-2, eff. 1/1/2002.
See 2001 Ga. Laws 30, § 4-1.
