# § 40-5-72. [Reserved] Forwarding of suspended license, license tag, and tag registration to department

(a) It is the duty of any person who has his or her driver's license and, where applicable, license tag and tag registration suspended under the provisions of Code Section 40-5-70 or 40-2-137 immediately upon suspension and demand of the department to forward such items to the department.
(b) If such driver's license and, where applicable, license tag and tag registration are not received by the department within ten days following the effective date of suspension, the commissioner shall immediately direct any peace officer to secure possession of the driver's license and, where applicable, license tag and tag registration and return the same to the department. The person whose driver's license and, where applicable, license tag and tag registration have been suspended shall surrender such items to any peace officer upon demand.
(c) Unless otherwise provided in this Code section, notice of the effective date of suspension shall occur when the driver receives actual knowledge or legal notice of the suspension, whichever occurs first. For the purposes of making any determination relating to the return of a suspended motor vehicle driver's license and, where applicable, license tag and tag registration, a period of suspension under Code Section 40-5-70 or 40-2-137 or this Code section shall begin upon the date of conviction adjudicated by the court having jurisdiction.
(d) Any person violating subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine of not less than $200.00 nor more than $1,000.00 or imprisonment for not more than 30 days.

## History

Repealed and Reserved by 2010 Ga. Laws 381,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2010.
