# § 40-5-149. Contents of application; application required when name, mailing address, or residence changed

(a) The application for a commercial driver's license or commercial driver's instruction permit shall include the following:
  (1) The full legal name and current mailing and residential address of the person;
  (2) A physical description of the person including sex, height, weight, and eye color;
  (3) Full date of birth;
  (4) Reserved;
  (5) The person's signature;
  (6) The person's current photograph;
  (7) Certifications, including those required by 49 C.F.R. Part 383.71(a);
  (8) Any other information required by the department; and
  (9) Consent to release driving record information to the Commercial Driver License Information System clearing-house and whatever agent or agency the Commercial Driver License Information System deems necessary by federal requirements. Each application shall be accompanied by an application fee of $35.00, except for those who operate or are applying to operate a public school bus and inmates of state or county correctional institutions who operate or are applying to operate commercial motor vehicles under the supervision of such institutions during the period of such inmates' confinement, in which cases there shall be no application fee.
(b) When a licensee changes his or her name, mailing address, or residence, an application for a new license shall be made within 30 days of such change. The fee for such new license shall be as provided in Code Section 40-5-25.
(c) No person who has been a resident of this state for 30 days or longer may drive a commercial motor vehicle under the authority of a commercial driver's license issued by another jurisdiction. It shall be the responsibility of the employer to notify the employee of the license issuance law of this state.
(d) Except as provided in Code Section 40-5-36, relating to veterans' licenses and except as provided in this Code section for public school bus drivers, there shall be no exceptions to the application and licenses fees required for issuance of a commercial driver's license or a commercial driver's instruction permit.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 434,§ 10, eff. 1/1/2009.
