# § 40-5-54. Mandatory suspension of license; notice of suspension

(a) The department shall forthwith suspend, as provided in Code Section 40-5-63, the license of any driver upon receiving a record of such driver's conviction of the following offenses, whether charged as a violation of state law or of a local ordinance adopted pursuant to Article 14 of Chapter 6 of this title:
  (1) Homicide by vehicle, as defined by Code Section 40-6-393;
  (2) Any felony in the commission of which a motor vehicle is used;
  (3) Hit and run or leaving the scene of an accident in violation of Code Section 40-6-270;
  (4) Racing on highways and streets;
  (5) Using a motor vehicle in fleeing or attempting to elude an officer; or
  (6) Operating a motor vehicle with a revoked, canceled, or suspended registration in violation of Code Section 40-6-15.
(b) All judges of all courts having jurisdiction of the offenses set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section shall, at the time of sentencing, give notice to the defendant on forms prescribed by the department of the suspension of the defendant's driver's license. The period of suspension shall be determined by the department for the term authorized by law. The court shall forward the notice of suspension and the defendant's driver's license to the department within ten days from the date of conviction. The department shall notify the defendant of the period of suspension at the address provided by the defendant.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 21,§ 4-13, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 89,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2012.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 582, § 7, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 881, § 4, eff. 11/1/2002
