# § 40-5-8. Registration of applicants with United States Selective Service System; notification that signature constitutes consent

(a) Any male United States citizen or immigrant who applies for any driver's license or identification card issued under this chapter, including without limitation any instruction permit, limited driving permit, provisional driver's license, or commercial driver's license, or for renewal thereof, and who is less than 26 years of age shall be registered in compliance with the requirements of Section 3 of the Military Selective Service Act, 50 App. U.S.C.A. Section 451, et seq., as amended.
(b) The signature of any applicant described in subsection (a) of this Code section submitted to the department in application for such license or identification card issuance or renewal shall serve as an indication that the applicant either has registered already with the United States Selective Service System or that he is authorizing the department to forward to the United States Selective Service System the necessary information for such registration. The department shall notify the applicant at the time of application that his signature constitutes consent to be registered with the United States Selective Service System if he is not already so registered. The department shall, as soon as practical following such application and in accordance with paragraph (1) of subsection (f) of Code Section 40-5-2, forward the necessary personal information of the applicant to the United States Selective Service System for purposes of registration therewith at such time as required by federal law.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 167, § 3, eff. 7/1/2001.
