# § 40-5-35. Disqualifying disorders and disabilities; reports by physicians and vision specialists; procedure when person found unqualified to be licensed

(a) The Driver License Advisory Board appointed by the department shall define disorders characterized by lapses of consciousness or other mental or physical disabilities affecting the ability of a person to drive safely for the purpose of the reports required by this Code section, and the commissioner may use these definitions to promulgate regulations making such disorders and disabilities disqualifications, under certain conditions, for obtaining or keeping a driver's license for any class or classes of vehicles; provided, however, that a person shall not be disqualified from obtaining a noncommercial Class C driver's license for having had an episode of lapsed or altered consciousness due to epilepsy unless such an episode occurred within the immediately preceding six-month period.
(b) All physicians licensed under Article 2 of Chapter 34 of Title 43 to diagnose and treat disorders and disabilities defined by the commissioner may report to the department the full name, date of birth, and address of any person with a disability which would render such person incapable of operating a motor vehicle safely.
(c) All other persons licensed under Chapter 30 of Title 43 to diagnose and treat disorders defined by the commissioner may report to the department the full name, date of birth, and address of any person with a disability which would render such person incapable of operating a motor vehicle safely.
(d) The reports required by this Code section shall be confidential and shall be used solely for the purpose of determining the qualifications of any person to drive a motor vehicle on the highways of this state. No civil or criminal action may be brought against any person or agency for providing the information required in this Code section. The reports, or any reference to the reports, shall not be included in any abstract prepared pursuant to Code Section 40-5-2.
(e) Reports received or made by the Driver License Advisory Board or its members for the purpose of assisting the department in determining whether a person is qualified to be licensed are for the confidential use of the Driver License Advisory Board or the department and may not be divulged to any person or used as evidence in any civil or criminal trial, except that the reports may be admitted in proceedings conducted pursuant to this Code section and Code Section 40-5-66.
(f) Whenever the department shall determine that a person is unqualified to be licensed, the department shall inform such person in writing and give him an opportunity to request a hearing, in writing, within 15 days. If no hearing is requested within the 15 day period as specified in this subsection, the right to this hearing shall be waived and the license of the person shall be revoked. The person may request an opinion of the Driver License Advisory Board as provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 40-5-34. The department may not grant any exceptions to any regulations issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section. The scope of the hearing shall determine, upon evidence and testimony submitted, if the driver is competent to drive a motor vehicle as defined in this title. No driving privileges shall be revoked unless the department shows that the driver had disorders characterized by lapses of consciousness or other mental or physical disabilities affecting his ability to drive safely. The hearing shall be informal and an appeal shall be as provided for in Code Section 40-5-66.
