# § 40-5-63.1. Clinical evaluation and substance abuse treatment programs for certain offenders

In addition to any and all other conditions of license reinstatement, issuance, or restoration under Code Section 40-5-57.1, 40-5-58, 40-5-62, or 40-5-63, any person with two or more convictions for violating Code Section 40-6-391 within ten years, as measured from the dates of previous arrests for which convictions were obtained to the date of the current arrest for which a conviction is obtained, shall be required to undergo a clinical evaluation and, if recommended as a part of such evaluation, shall complete a substance abuse treatment program prior to such license reinstatement, issuance, or restoration; provided, however, that such evaluation and treatment shall be at such person's expense except as otherwise provided by Code Section 37-7-120. Acceptable proof of completion of such a program shall be submitted to the department prior to license reinstatement, issuance, or restoration. For purposes of this Code section, a plea of nolo contendere to a charge of violating Code Section 40-6-391 and all prior accepted pleas of nolo contendere within ten years, as measured from the dates of previous arrests for which convictions were obtained or pleas of nolo contendere were accepted to the date of the current arrest for which a plea of nolo contendere is accepted, shall be considered and counted as convictions.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 579,§; 4, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 544,§; 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
