# § 40-5-31. Replacement permits or licenses

(a) In the event that an instruction permit or a driver's license issued under this chapter is lost or destroyed, the person to whom the same was issued may upon payment of the required fee and upon furnishing proof satisfactory to the department that such permit has been lost or destroyed:
  (1) Obtain a new permit or license; or
  (2) Obtain a replacement permit or license. A new permit obtained under this Code section shall be obtained in the same manner and under the same conditions and limitations as provided in Code Section 40-5-24. A new license obtained under this Code section shall be obtained in the same manner and under the same conditions and limitations as provided in Code Section 40-5-32. A replacement permit or license obtained under this Code section shall be issued only for the remaining period for which the original permit or license was issued for a fee of $10.00, and no examination or eyesight test shall be required to obtain such replacement permit.
(b) The department shall issue a temporary permit or driver's license to each individual who has lost by misplacement, and not by revocation or suspension, his or her instruction permit or driver's license and who has made application under oath on a form furnished by the department which states that the applicant presently has a valid permit or license which has been lost or misplaced. In lieu of the applicant's signature on a form, any application for the issuance of a replacement permit or license submitted electronically shall contain an acknowledgment and attestation under penalty of perjury that he or she meets each requirement of this Code section.
(c) A temporary permit or license issued pursuant to this Code section shall be valid for 30 days but may be renewed in the event the applicant's new permit or license has not been received within such time.
(d) Any person who falsely swears or falsely makes the oath provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 738,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 17-9, eff. 7/1/2005.
