# § 40-5-56. Suspension of license or driving privilege for failure to respond to citation; reinstatement of license

(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter or any other law to the contrary and unless otherwise ordered by the court, the department shall suspend the driver's license or privilege to operate a motor vehicle in this state of any person who has failed to respond to a citation to appear before a court of competent jurisdiction in this state or in any other state for a traffic violation other than a parking violation. The department shall include language in the uniform traffic citation stating that failure to appear and respond to such citation may result in the suspension of the violator's driver's license or nonresident driving privilege. The language reflected on a uniform traffic citation issued in this state shall be sufficient notice of said suspension to support a conviction for a violation of Code Section 40-5-121 if such person drives subsequent to the imposition of such a suspension following his or her failure to appear; provided, however, that the department shall send notice of any suspension imposed pursuant to this Code section via certified mail or certificate of mailing to the address reflected on its records as the person's mailing address. For purposes of this subsection, the term "certificate of mailing" means a delivery method utilized by the United States Postal Service which provides evidence that an item has been sent and the date such item was accepted.
(b) The suspension provided for in this Code section shall be for an indefinite period until such person has scheduled a new date to appear before the court pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 17-6-11; has made an appearance in court through hearing, arraignment, or waiver of arraignment and entry of a plea; the charge against the accused has been finally adjudicated; or the court otherwise orders such person's driver's license be reinstated. Such person's license shall be reinstated when the department receives proof of payment of any fines and penalties, an order of reinstatement by the court and payment of the applicable restoration fee of $100.00 or $90.00 when such reinstatement is processed by mail to the department, unless such fee is waived by the court or otherwise as provided by law. Such suspension shall be in addition to any other suspension or revocation provided for in this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 550,§ 7, eff. 5/2/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 868,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 468,§ 1-3, eff. 6/30/2020.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 633,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 135,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 434,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 590,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2006.
