# § 36-42-11. Agreements and instruments of authority generally; use of proceeds; subsequent issues; bond anticipation notes

(a) Subject to the limitations and procedures provided by this Code section and by Code Section 36-42-10, the agreements or instruments executed by an authority may contain such provisions not inconsistent with law as shall be determined by the board of directors of the authority.
(b) The proceeds derived from the sale of all bonds, notes, and other obligations issued by an authority shall be held and used for the ultimate purpose of paying, directly or indirectly as permitted in this chapter, all or part of the cost of any project, or for the purpose of refunding any bonds, notes, or other obligations issued in accordance with this chapter.
(c) Issuance by an authority of one or more series of bonds, notes, or other obligations for one or more purposes shall not preclude it from issuing other bonds, notes, or other obligations in connection with the same project or with any other projects; but the proceeding wherein any subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations are issued shall recognize and protect any prior loan agreement, mortgage, deed to secure debt, trust deed, security agreement, or other agreement or instrument made for any prior issue of bonds, notes, or other obligations, unless in the resolution authorizing such prior issue the right is expressly reserved to the authority to issue subsequent bonds, notes, or other obligations on a parity with such prior issue.
(d) An authority shall have the power and is authorized, whenever bonds of the authority shall have been validated as provided in this chapter, to issue from time to time its notes in anticipation of such bonds as validated and to renew from time to time any such notes by the issuance of new notes, whether or not the notes to be renewed have matured. The authority may issue such bond anticipation notes only to provide funds which would otherwise be provided by the issuance of the bonds as validated. Such notes may be authorized, sold, executed, and delivered in the same manner as bonds. As with its bonds, the authority may sell such notes at public sale or at private sale. Any resolution or resolutions authorizing notes of the authority or any issue thereof may contain any provisions which the authority is authorized to include in any resolution or resolutions authorizing bonds of the authority to any issue thereof; and the authority may include in any notes any terms, covenants, or conditions which the authority is authorized to include in any bonds. Validation of such bonds shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of such notes, but it shall not be required that such notes be judicially validated. Bond anticipation notes shall not be issued in an amount exceeding the par value of the bonds in anticipation of which they are to be issued.
