# § 36-42-7. Qualifications and reimbursement of directors; election of officers; training

(a) Directors shall be:
  (1) Taxpayers residing in the municipal corporation for which the authority is created;
  (2) Owners or operators of businesses located within the downtown development area and who shall be taxpayers residing in the county in which is located the municipal corporation for which the authority is created; or
  (3) Persons having a combination of the qualifications specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection; provided, however, that one of such directors may be a member of the governing body of the municipal corporation.
(b) Not less than four of the directors having the qualifications specified in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be persons who, in the judgment of the governing body of the municipal corporation, either have or represent a party who has an economic interest in the redevelopment and revitalization of the downtown development area. Successors to the directors shall be appointed by the governing body of the municipal corporation.
(c) The directors shall elect one of their members as chairman and another as vice chairman and shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer or a secretary-treasurer, either of whom may but need not be a director. The directors shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties.
(c.1) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, one director appointed to the board may reside outside the county; provided, however, that such appointed director owns a business within the downtown development area and is a resident of the State of Georgia. If subsequently to his or her appointment to the board pursuant to this subsection, the director ceases to own a business within the downtown development area or reside in the State of Georgia, such director shall relinquish his or her seat on the board.
(d) Except for a director who is also a member of the governing body of a municipal corporation, each director shall attend and complete at least eight hours of training on downtown development and redevelopment programs within the first 12 months of a director's appointment to the downtown development authority. Directors in office on January 1, 1992, shall be exempt from this requirement unless reappointed for an additional term.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 177,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2021.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 435,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
