# § 46-4A-14. Civil penalties; removal of contractor, supplier, or lender from master record

(a) Any covered utility which intentionally or negligently violates any provision of this chapter or the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder or which fails or refuses to comply with any final order of the director issued as provided in this chapter shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 for such violation and an additional civil penalty not to exceed $500.00 for each day such violation continues.
(b) The director, after notice and hearing, shall determine whether or not any covered utility has intentionally or negligently violated any provision of this chapter or has failed or refused to comply with any final order of the director and may, upon a proper finding, issue his order imposing such civil penalties as provided in this Code section. Any covered utility so penalized under this section is entitled to judicial review. All hearings and proceedings for judicial review under this Code section shall be in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," as provided in this chapter. All penalties and interest recovered by the director, as provided in this Code section, together with the cost thereof, shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the general fund.
(c) Any contractor, supplier, or lender who is listed on the master record established by the Division of Energy Resources of the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority and who violates any provision of this chapter or the rules or regulations promulgated hereunder is subject to removal from the applicable master record in accordance with the rules and regulations established pursuant to the Residential Conservation Service program.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 634,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
