# § 31-13-11. Impounding and condemnation of radiation generating equipment and radioactive materials

(a) In the event of an emergency, the Department of Community Health shall have the authority to impound or order the impounding of radiation generating equipment in the possession of any person who is not equipped to observe or fails to observe the provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations issued pursuant to this chapter.
(b) The Department of Community Health may release such radiation generating equipment to the owner thereof upon terms and conditions in accordance with this chapter and rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter or may bring an action in the appropriate superior court for an order condemning such radiation generating equipment and providing for its destruction or other disposition so as to protect the public health and safety.
(c) In the event of an emergency, the Department of Natural Resources shall have the authority to impound or order the impounding of radioactive materials in the possession of any person who is not equipped to observe or fails to observe the provisions of this chapter or any rules and regulations issued pursuant to this chapter.
(d) The Department of Natural Resources may release such radioactive materials to the owner thereof upon terms and conditions in accordance with this chapter and rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter or may bring an action in the appropriate superior court for an order condemning such radioactive materials and providing for their destruction or other disposition so as to protect the public health and safety.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
