# § 31-13-10. Suspension, revocation, and amendment of license or registration; emergency orders; review

(a) The Department of Natural Resources may refuse to grant a license as provided in Code Section 31-13-8 or 31-13-8.1 and the Department of Community Health may refuse to register radiation generating equipment as provided in Code Section 31-13-8.2 to any applicant who does not possess the applicable requirements or qualifications which the Department of Natural Resources or the Department of Community Health, as applicable, may prescribe in rules and regulations. The Department of Natural Resources or the Department of Community Health may suspend, revoke, or amend any license or registration, respectively, in the event the person to whom such license or registration was granted violates any of the rules and regulations of the Department of Natural Resources or the Department of Community Health, whichever is applicable, or ceases or fails to have the reasonable facilities prescribed by the Department of Natural Resources or the Department of Community Health, provided that, before any order is entered denying an application for a license or registration or suspending, revoking, or amending a license or registration previously granted, the applicant or person to whom such license or registration was granted shall be given notice and granted a hearing as provided in Article 1 of Chapter 5 of this title.
(b) Whenever the Department of Natural Resources or the Department of Community Health finds that an emergency exists involving any licensee or registrant requiring immediate action to protect the public health and safety, the Department of Natural Resources or the Department of Community Health, as is appropriate, may, without notice or hearing, issue an order reciting the existence of such emergency and requiring that such action be taken as is necessary to meet the emergency. Notwithstanding any provisions of this chapter, such order shall be effective immediately. Any person to whom such order is directed shall comply therewith immediately but on application to the Department of Natural Resources or the Department of Community Health, as is appropriate, shall be afforded a hearing within ten days. On the basis of such hearing, the emergency order shall be continued, modified, or revoked within 30 days after such hearing, as the Department of Natural Resources or the Department of Community Health, as is appropriate, may deem appropriate under the evidence.
(c) Any applicant or person to whom a license or registration was granted who is aggrieved by any order of the Department of Natural Resources or the Department of Community Health or the duly authorized agent of such department denying any such application or suspending, revoking, or amending such license or registration may file a hearing request with the appropriate agency to contest such action pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
