# § 33-11-82. Definitions

(1) "Business entity" means a corporation, limited liability company, association, partnership, joint-stock company, joint venture, mutual fund trust, or other similar form of business organization, whether organized for profit or not for profit.
(2) "Class one money market mutual fund" means a mutual fund that at all times qualifies for investment using the bond class one reserve factor under the Purposes and Procedures of the SVO or any successor publication.
(3) "Government money market mutual fund" means a money market mutual fund that at all times:
  (A) Invests only in obligations issued, guaranteed, or insured by the government of the United States or collateralized repurchase agreements composed of such obligations; and
  (B) Qualifies for investment without a reserve under the Purposes and Procedures of the SVO or any successor publication.
(4) "Money market mutual fund" means a mutual fund that meets the conditions of 17 C.F.R. 270.2a-7, under the Investment Company Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. Section 80a-1, et seq., as amended.
(5) "Obligation" means a bond, note, debenture, or trust certificate, including equipment certificate, production payment, negotiable bank certificate of deposit, banker's acceptance, credit tenant loan, loan secured by financing net leases, and other evidence of indebtedness for the payment of money, or participation, certificates, or other evidences of an interest in any of the foregoing, whether constituting a general obligation of the issuer or payable only out of certain revenues or certain funds pledged or otherwise dedicated for payment.
(6) "Qualified bank" means a national bank, state bank, or trust company that at all times is no less than adequately capitalized as determined by the standards provided by federal banking regulations and that is either regulated by state banking laws or is a member of the Federal Reserve System.
(7) "Repurchase transaction" means a transaction in which an insurer purchases securities from a business entity that is obligated to repurchase the purchased securities or equivalent securities from the insurer at a specified price, either within a specified period of time or upon demand.
(8) "Reverse repurchase transaction" means a transaction in which an insurer sells securities to a business entity and is obligated to repurchase the sold securities or equivalent securities from the business entity at a specified price, either within a specified period of time or upon demand.
(9) "Securities lending transaction" means a transaction in which securities are loaned by an insurer to a business entity that is obligated to return the loaned securities or equivalent securities to the insurer, either within a specified period of time or upon demand.
(10) "SVO" means the Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
