# § 43-14-15. Certain military certifications entitle persons to obtain certain professional licenses

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Discharge" means an honorable discharge or a general discharge from active military service. Such term shall not mean a discharge under other than honorable conditions, a bad conduct discharge, or a dishonorable discharge.
  (2) "Military" means the armed forces of the United States or a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States, including the National Guard.
(b) A committee composed of the division director, members of the Governor's Office of Workforce Development, and members of the relevant divisions of the licensing board representing the profession for which the applicant is seeking a license shall determine the military specialties or certifications the training or experience for which substantially meets or exceeds the requirements to obtain a license for Electrical Contractor Class I, Journeyman Plumber, Conditioned Air Contractor Class I, or Utility Foreman. The Governor shall designate a chairperson from among the members of the committee.
(c) Any current or former member of the military may apply to the licensing board for the immediate issuance of a license or certification based upon his or her having obtained a military specialty or certification, the training or experience for which substantially meets or exceeds the requirements to obtain a license or certification identified in subsection (b) of this Code section. In order to qualify under this subsection, an applicant shall make application not later than two years after his or her discharge. The licensing board, in its discretion, may by rule or regulation extend such two-year period for a license or certification, or class thereof, or may extend such two-year period for an individual applicant if certain circumstances, including, but not limited to, health, hospitalization, or other related emergencies or exigencies, prevented the member of the military from making an application. Such application shall be in such form and shall require such documentation as the division director shall determine. If the applicant satisfies the requirements of this Code section, the division director shall direct the appropriate division to issue the appropriate license, and the division shall immediately issue such license; provided, however, that the applicant shall satisfy all financial and insurance requirements for the issuance of such license. This Code section shall only apply to the initial issuance of a license. After the initial issuance of a license, the licensee shall be subject to any provisions relating to the renewal of the license applicable to all licensees.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 206,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2021.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 43, eff. 4/29/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 12,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
