# § 43-14-12.1. Evidence of violation; cease and desist orders; fines; other penalties for violations

(a) If a person is in violation of paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (c) of Code Section 43-14-8, it shall not be necessary for an investigator to observe or witness the unlicensed person engaged illegally in the process of work or to show work in progress or work completed in order to prove the unlawful practice of conditioned air contracting by an unlicensed person.
(b) It shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of this chapter if any person not licensed as a conditioned air contractor advertises that such person is in the business or profession of a conditioned air contractor or advertises in a manner such that the general public would believe that such person is a licensed conditioned air contractor or in the business or profession of a conditioned air contractor. Advertising under this subsection includes, but is not limited to, newspaper, television, radio, telephone directory, mailings, business cards, or sign at place of business or attached to a vehicle.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Code Section 43-1-20.1, after notice and hearing, the board may issue a cease and desist order prohibiting any person from violating the provisions of this chapter by engaging in the business or profession of a conditioned air contractor without a license as required under this chapter.
(d) The violation of any cease and desist order of the board issued under subsection (c) of this Code section shall subject the person violating the order to further proceedings before the board, and the board shall be authorized to impose a fine not to exceed $500.00 for each violation thereof. Each day that a person practices in violation of this Code section and chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit the board from seeking remedies otherwise available by statute without first seeking a cease and desist order in accordance with the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 281, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
