# § 43-14-8.4. Utility foreman certificate; presence of certified utility manager or certified utility foreman required

(a) After June 30, 1994, no person may be employed as a utility foreman unless that person holds a current utility foreman certificate issued by the Division of Utility Contractors.
(b) The division shall certify all applicants for certification under this chapter who satisfy the requirements of this chapter and the rules and regulations promulgated under this chapter. One requirement for such certification shall be the successful completion of a course of safety training in utility contracting approved by the division. In order to continue to hold such certificate, the certificate holder must submit proof to the division of completion of a safety training course approved by the division at least every two years from the date of the completion of the initial safety training course. In lieu of safety training any person desiring to be issued a utility foreman certificate may submit a completed application on or before December 31, 1994, which documents to the satisfaction of the division at least two years of experience as a utility foreman during the period between January 1, 1984, and June 30, 1994. Any person who does not submit a completed application for certification on or before December 31, 1994, must complete the required safety training in order to be certified.
(c) After June 30, 1994, no utility system shall be constructed, erected, altered, or repaired unless a certified utility manager or certified utility foreman who holds a current certification is present at the job site of such construction, erection, alteration, or repair of the utility system.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 485, § 5, eff. 7/1/2004.
