# § 43-14-12.2. Proof of unlawful practice of utility contracting by unlicensed individual; cease and desist orders; penalty for violations

(a) If a person is in violation of Code Section 43-14-8.2, 43-14-8.3, or 43-14-8.4, it shall not be necessary for an investigator to observe or witness the unlicensed person engaged illegally in the process of work or to show work in progress or work completed in order to prove the unlawful practice of utility contracting by an unlicensed person.
(b) It shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of this chapter if any person not licensed as a utility contractor advertises that such person is in the business or profession of a utility contractor or advertises in a manner such that the general public would believe that such person is a licensed utility contractor or in the business or profession of a utility contractor. Advertising under this subsection includes, but is not limited to, newspaper, television, or radio advertisements, telephone directory listings, mailings, business cards, or a sign or signs at a place of business or attached to a vehicle.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Code Section 43-1-20.1, after notice and hearing, the board may issue a cease and desist order prohibiting any person from violating the provisions of this chapter by engaging in the business or profession of a utility contractor without a license as required under this chapter or by constructing, erecting, altering, or repairing a utility system without a properly certified utility manager or properly certified utility foreman present at such job site.
(d) The violation of any cease and desist order of the board issued under subsection (c) of this Code section shall subject the person violating the order to further proceedings before the board, and the board shall be authorized to impose a fine not to exceed $5,000.00 for each violation thereof. Each day that a person practices in violation of this Code section and chapter or constructs, erects, alters, or repairs a utility system without a properly certified utility manager or properly certified utility foreman present at such job site shall constitute a separate violation.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit the board from seeking remedies otherwise available by statute without first seeking a cease and desist order in accordance with the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 485, § 6, eff. 7/1/2004.
