# § 36-61-18. Creation of agency; appointment of board of commissioners; compensation, term, and certificate; annual report; removal of commissioners

(a) There is created in each municipality and in each county a public body corporate and politic to be known as the "urban redevelopment agency" of the municipality or county. Such agency shall not transact any business or exercise its powers under this Code section until or unless the local governing body has made the finding prescribed in Code Section 36-61-5 and has elected to have the urban redevelopment project powers exercised by an urban redevelopment agency as provided in Code Section 36-61-17.
(b) If the urban redevelopment agency is authorized to transact business and exercise powers under this Code section, the mayor, by and with the advice and consent of the local governing body, or the board of commissioners or other governing body of the county shall appoint a board of commissioners of the urban redevelopment agency, which shall consist of such number of commissioners, with such terms of office, as shall be determined by the local governing body. If the governing body of a municipality designates members of a downtown development authority as an urban redevelopment agency, the method of appointment, number of commissioners, and terms of office shall be in conformity with the requirements of Code Section 36-42-4.
(c) A commissioner shall receive no compensation for his services but shall be entitled to the necessary expenses, including traveling expenses, incurred in the discharge of his duties. Each commissioner shall hold office until his successor has been appointed and has qualified. A certificate of the appointment or reappointment of any commissioner shall be filed with the clerk of the municipality or county and such certificate shall be conclusive evidence of the due and proper appointment of such commissioner.
(d) The powers of an urban redevelopment agency shall be exercised by the commissioners thereof. A majority of the commissioners shall constitute a quorum for the purpose of conducting business and exercising the powers of the agency and for all other purposes. Action may be taken by the agency upon a vote of a majority of the commissioners present, unless in any case the bylaws require a larger number. Any person may be appointed as commissioner if he resides within the area of operation of the agency, which shall be coterminous with the area of operation of the municipality or county, and is otherwise eligible for such appointments under this chapter.
(e) The mayor or the board of commissioners or other governing body of the county shall designate a chairman and vice-chairman from among the commissioners. An agency may employ an executive director, technical experts, and such other agents and employees, permanent and temporary, as it may require and may determine their qualifications, duties, and compensation. For such legal service as it may require, an agency may employ or retain its own counsel and legal staff. An agency authorized to transact business and exercise powers under this chapter shall file with the local governing body, on or before March 31 of each year, a report of its activities for the preceding calendar year, which report shall include a complete financial statement setting forth its assets, liabilities, income, and operating expense as of the end of such calendar year. At the time of filing the report, the agency shall publish in a newspaper of general circulation in the community a notice to the effect that such report has been filed with the municipality or county and that the report is available for inspection during business hours in the office of the city or county clerk and in the office of the agency.
(f) For inefficiency, neglect of duty, or misconduct in office, a commissioner may be removed, but only after a hearing. He shall be given a copy of the charges at least ten days prior to such hearing and shall have an opportunity to be heard in person or by counsel.
