# § 20-2A-3. Taxation reporting requirements for student scholarship organizations

(a) Each student scholarship organization shall report annually to the Department of Revenue, on a date determined by the Department of Revenue, subject to the time limits provided for in paragraph (5) of Code Section 20-2A-2, and on a form provided by the Department of Revenue, the following information:
  (1) The total number and dollar value of individual contributions and tax credits approved. Individual contributions shall include contributions made by those filing income tax returns as a single individual or head of household and those filing joint returns;
  (2) The total number and dollar value of corporate contributions and tax credits approved;
  (3) The total number and dollar value of scholarships awarded to eligible students;
  (4) The total number of scholarship recipients whose family's adjusted gross income falls:
    (A) Under 125 percent of the federal poverty level;
    (B) Between 125 and 250 percent of the federal poverty level;
    (C) Between 250 and 400 percent of the federal poverty level; and
    (D) Above 400 percent of the federal poverty level;
  (4.1) The total number of scholarship recipients and the average scholarship dollar amount by each county within which any scholarship recipient resides;
  (5) The average scholarship dollar amount by adjusted gross income category as provided in paragraph (4) of this subsection; and
  (6) A list of donors, including the dollar value of each donation and the dollar value of each approved tax credit. Such report shall also include a copy of the audit conducted pursuant to paragraph (5) of Code Section 20-2A-2. The Department of Revenue shall post on its website the information received from each student scholarship organization pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (5) of this subsection and the report of the student scholarship organization's most recent audit conducted pursuant to paragraph (5) of Code Section 20-2A-2, except that no information of confidential taxpayer information contained in such audit report shall be posted or otherwise disclosed to the public by the Department of Revenue.
(b) Except for the allowable information included in the report of the audit conducted pursuant to paragraph (5) of Code Section 20-2A-2 and the information reported pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (5) of subsection (a) of this Code section, all information or reports provided by student scholarship organizations to the Department of Revenue shall be confidential taxpayer information, governed by Code Sections 48-2-15, 48-7-60, and 48-7-61, whether it relates to the donor or the student scholarship organization.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 722,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 424,§ 3, eff. 5/7/2018.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 335,§ 33C, eff. 5/7/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 170,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 773,§ 1, eff. 5/14/2008.
