# § 25-15-66. Order for temporary cessation; injunction; penalties

(a) The Commissioner or the Commissioner's authorized representative may issue a written order for the temporary cessation of operation of an amusement ride if it has been determined after inspection to be hazardous or unsafe. Operations shall not resume until such conditions are corrected to the satisfaction of the Commissioner or the Commissioner's authorized representative.
(b) In the event that an owner or operator knowingly allows the operation of an amusement ride after the issuing of a temporary cessation, the Commissioner or the Commissioner's authorized representative may initiate in the superior court any action for an injunction or writ of mandamus upon the petition of the district attorney or Attorney General. An injunction, without bond, may be granted by the superior court to the Commissioner for the purpose of enforcing this article.
(c)
  (1) Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation violating the provisions of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day of violation shall constitute a separate offense.
  (2) In addition to the penalty provisions in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Commissioner shall have the power, after notice and hearing, to levy civil penalties as prescribed in the rules and regulations of the office in an amount not to exceed $5,000.00 upon any person, firm, partnership, or corporation failing to adhere to the requirements of this article and the rules and regulations promulgated under this article. The imposition of a penalty for a violation of this article or the rules and regulations promulgated under this article shall not excuse the violation or permit it to continue.

## History

Transferred from 34-12-18 and amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 3, eff. 5/2/2012.
