# § 25-15-24. Filing and maintenance of special investigator's report; issuance and suspension of inspection certificate

(a) Each company employing special inspectors shall, within 30 days following each certificate inspection made by such inspectors, file a report of such inspection with the chief inspector upon appropriate forms as promulgated by the Commissioner. The filing of reports of external inspections, other than certificate inspections, shall not be required except when such inspections disclose that the boiler or pressure vessel is in a dangerous condition.
(b) Each company operating pressure vessels covered by an owner or user inspection service meeting the requirements of subsection (a) of Code Section 25-15-19 shall maintain in its files an inspection record which shall list, by number and such abbreviated description as may be necessary for identification, each pressure vessel covered by this article, the date of the last inspection of each pressure vessel, and the approximate date for the next inspection. The inspection record shall be available for examination by the chief inspector or the chief inspector's authorized representative during business hours.
(c) If the report filed pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shows that a boiler or pressure vessel is found to comply with the rules and regulations of the office, the chief inspector, or his or her duly authorized representative, shall issue to such owner or user an inspection certificate bearing the date of inspection and specifying the maximum pressure under which the boiler or pressure vessel may be operated. Such inspection certificate shall be valid for not more than 14 months from its date in the case of power boilers, 26 months in the case of heating and hot water supply boilers, and 38 months in the case of pressure vessels. In the case of those boilers and pressure vessels covered by subparagraphs (b)(1)(A) through (b)(1)(D) of Code Section 25-15-23 for which the office has established or extended the operating period between required inspections pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (b) of Code Section 25-15-23, the certificate shall be valid for a period of not more than two months beyond the period set by the office. Certificates for boilers shall be posted under glass, or similarly protected, in the room containing the boiler. Pressure vessel certificates shall be posted in like manner, if convenient, or filed where they will be readily accessible for examination.
(d) No inspection certificate issued for an insured boiler or pressure vessel based upon a report of a special inspector shall be valid after the boiler or pressure vessel for which it was issued shall cease to be insured by a company duly authorized by this state to provide such insurance.
(e) The Commissioner or the Commissioner's authorized representative may at any time suspend an inspection certificate after showing cause that the boiler or pressure vessel for which it was issued cannot be operated without menace to the public safety or when the boiler or pressure vessel is found not to comply with the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this article. Each suspension of an inspection certificate shall continue in effect until such boiler or pressure vessel shall have been made to conform to the rules and regulations of the office and until such inspection certificate shall have been reinstated.
(f) The Commissioner or the Commissioner's authorized representative may issue a written order for the temporary cessation of operation of a boiler or pressure vessel if it has been determined after inspection to be hazardous or unsafe. Operations shall not resume until such conditions are corrected to the satisfaction of the Commissioner or his or her authorized representative.

## History

Transferred from 34-11-15 and amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2012.
