# § 25-15-23. Inspections

(a) The Commissioner, the chief inspector, or any deputy inspector shall have free access, during reasonable hours, to any premises in this state where a boiler or pressure vessel is being constructed for use in, or is being installed in, this state for the purpose of ascertaining whether such boiler or pressure vessel is being constructed and installed in accordance with the provisions of this article.
(b)
  (1) On and after January 1, 1986, each boiler and pressure vessel used or proposed to be used within this state, except for pressure vessels covered by an owner or user inspection service as described in subsection (d) of this Code section or except for boilers or pressure vessels exempt under Code Section 25-15-16(owners and users may request to waive this exemption), shall be thoroughly inspected as to their construction, installation, and condition as follows:
    (A) Power boilers and high pressure, high temperature water boilers shall receive a certificate inspection annually which shall be an internal inspection where construction permits; otherwise, it shall be as complete an inspection as possible. Such boilers shall also be externally inspected while under pressure, if possible;
    (B) Low pressure steam or vapor heating boilers shall receive a certificate inspection biennially with an internal inspection every four years where construction permits;
    (C) Hot water heating and hot water supply boilers shall receive a certificate inspection biennially with an internal inspection at the discretion of the inspector;
    (D) Pressure vessels shall receive a certificate inspection biannually with an internal inspection at the discretion of the inspector. Pressure vessels not subject to internal corrosion shall receive a certificate of inspection at intervals set by the office; and
    (E) Nuclear vessels within the scope of this article shall be inspected and reported in such form and with such appropriate information as the office shall designate.
  (2) A grace period of two months beyond the periods specified in subparagraphs (A) through (D) of this paragraph may elapse between certificate inspections.
  (3) The office may provide for longer periods between certificate inspection in its rules and regulations.
  (4) Under the provisions of this article, the office is responsible for providing for the safety of life, limb, and property and therefore has jurisdiction over the interpretation and application of the inspection requirements as provided for in the rules and regulations which it has promulgated. The person conducting the inspection during construction and installation shall certify as to the minimum requirements for safety as defined in the ASME Code. Inspection requirements of operating equipment shall be in accordance with generally accepted practice and compatible with the actual service conditions, such as:
    (A) Previous experience, based on records of inspection, performance, and maintenance;
    (B) Location, with respect to personnel hazard;
    (C) Quality of inspection and operating personnel;
    (D) Provision for related safe operation controls; and
    (E) Interrelation with other operations outside the scope of this article. Based upon documentation of such actual service conditions by the owner or user of the operating equipment, the office may, in its discretion, permit variations in the inspection requirements.
(c) The inspections required in this article shall be made by the chief inspector, by a deputy inspector, by a special inspector, or by an owner or user inspector provided for in this article.
(d) Owner or user inspection of pressure vessels is permitted, provided the owner or user inspection service is regularly established and is under the supervision of one or more individuals whose qualifications are satisfactory to the office and said owner or user causes the pressure vessels to be inspected in conformance with the National Board Inspection Code or API 510, as applicable.
(e) If, at the discretion of the inspector, a hydrostatic test shall be deemed necessary, it shall be made by the owner or user of the boiler or pressure vessel.
(f) All boilers, other than cast iron sectional boilers, and pressure vessels to be installed in this state after the 12 month period from the date upon which the rules and regulations of the office shall become effective shall be inspected during construction as required by the applicable rules and regulations of the office by an inspector authorized to inspect boilers and pressure vessels in this state or, if constructed outside of the state, by an inspector holding a commission issued by the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 614,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2024.
Transferred from 34-11-14 and amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2012.
