# § 25-15-21. Suspension and revocation of inspector's certificate of competency; hearing; reinstatement

(a) An inspector's certificate of competency may be suspended by the Commissioner after due investigation for the incompetence or untrustworthiness of the holder thereof or for willful falsification of any matter or statement contained in his or her application or in a report of any inspection made by him or her. Written notice of any such suspension shall be given by the Commissioner within not more than ten days thereof to the inspector and his or her employer. A person whose certificate of competency has been suspended shall be entitled to an appeal as provided in Code Section 25-15-28 and to be present in person and to be represented by counsel at the hearing of the appeal.
(b) If the office has reason to believe that an inspector is no longer qualified to hold his or her certificate of competency, the office shall provide written notice to the inspector and his or her employer of the office's determination and the right to an appeal as provided in Code Section 25-15-28. If, as a result of such hearing, the inspector has been determined to be no longer qualified to hold his or her certificate of competency, the Commissioner shall thereupon revoke such certificate of competency forthwith.
(c) A person whose certificate of competency has been suspended shall be entitled to apply, after 90 days from the date of such suspension, for reinstatement of such certificate of competency.

## History

Transferred from 34-11-12 and amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2012.
