# § 25-15-13. Definitions, rules, and regulations for safe construction, installation, inspection, maintenance, and repair

(a)
  (1) The office shall formulate definitions, rules, and regulations for the safe construction, installation, inspection, maintenance, and repair of boilers and pressure vessels in this state.
  (2) The definitions, rules, and regulations so formulated for new construction shall be based upon and at all times follow the generally accepted nation-wide engineering standards, formulas, and practices established and pertaining to boiler and pressure vessel construction and safety; and the office may adopt an existing published codification thereof, known as the Boiler and Pressure Vessel Code of the American Society of Mechanical Engineers, with the amendments and interpretations thereto made and approved by the council of the society, and may likewise adopt the amendments and interpretations subsequently made and published by the same authority. When so adopted, the same shall be deemed to be incorporated into and shall constitute a part of the whole of the definitions, rules, and regulations of the office. Amendments and interpretations to the code so adopted shall be effective immediately upon being promulgated, to the end that the definitions, rules, and regulations shall at all times follow the generally accepted nation-wide engineering standards.
  (3) The office shall formulate the rules and regulations for the inspection, maintenance, and repair of boilers and pressure vessels which were in use in this state prior to the date upon which the first rules and regulations under this article pertaining to existing installations become effective or during the 12 month period immediately thereafter. The rules and regulations so formulated shall be based upon and at all times follow generally accepted nation-wide engineering standards and practices and may adopt sections of the Inspection Code of the National Board of Boiler and Pressure Vessel Inspectors or API 510 of the American Petroleum Institute, as applicable.
(b) The rules and regulations and any subsequent amendments thereto formulated by the office shall, immediately following a hearing upon not less than 20 days' notice as provided in this article, be approved and published and when so promulgated shall have the force and effect of law, except that the rules applying to the construction of new boilers and pressure vessels shall not become mandatory until 12 months after their promulgation by the office. Notice of the hearing shall give the time and place of the hearing and shall state the matters to be considered at the hearing. Such notice shall be given to all persons directly affected by such hearing. In the event all persons directly affected are unknown, notice may be perfected by publication in a newspaper of general circulation in this state at least 20 days prior to such hearing.
(c) Subsequent amendments to the rules and regulations adopted by the office shall be permissive immediately and shall become mandatory 12 months after their promulgation.

## History

Transferred from 34-11-4 and amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2012.
