# § 25-15-81. Definitions

(1) "Authorized person" means a competent person experienced and instructed in the work to be performed who has been given the responsibility to perform his or her duty by the owner or the owner's representative.
(2) "Carnival ride" means any mechanical device, other than amusement rides regulated under Article 3 of this chapter, known as the "Amusement Ride Safety Act," which carries or conveys passengers along, around, or over a fixed or restricted route or course or within a defined area for the purpose of giving its passengers amusement, pleasure, thrills, or excitement. Such term shall not include any such device which is permanently fixed to a site.
(3) "Certificate fee" means the fee charged by the office for a certificate to operate a carnival ride.
(4) "Certificate of inspection" means a certificate issued by a licensed inspector that a carnival ride meets all relevant provisions of this article and the standards and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(5) "Commissioner" means the Safety Fire Commissioner.
(6) "Licensed inspector" means a registered professional engineer or any other person who is found by the office to possess the requisite training and experience to perform competently the inspections required by this article and who is licensed by the office to perform inspections of carnival rides.
(7) "Office" means the office of Safety Fire Commissioner, which is designated to enforce the provisions of this article and to formulate and enforce standards and regulations.
(8) "Operator" means a person or persons actually engaged in or directly controlling the operation of a carnival ride.
(9) "Owner" means a person, including the state or any of its subdivisions, who owns a carnival ride or, in the event that the carnival ride is leased, the lessee.
(10) "Permit" means a permit to operate a carnival ride issued to an owner by the office.
(11) "Permit fee" means the fee charged by the office for a permit to operate a carnival ride.
(12) "Standards and regulations" means those standards and regulations formulated and enforced by the office.

## History

Transferred from 34-13-2 and amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 4, eff. 5/2/2012.
