# § 25-15-51. Definitions

(1) "Amusement ride" means any mechanical device, other than those regulated by the Consumer Products Safety Commission, which carries or conveys passengers along, around, or over a fixed or restricted route or course or within a defined area for the purpose of giving its passengers amusement, pleasure, thrills, or excitement. Such term shall not include any such device which is not permanently fixed to a site.
(2) "Authorized person" means a competent person experienced and instructed in the work to be performed who has been given the responsibility to perform his or her duty by the owner or his or her representative.
(3) "Certificate fee" means the fee charged by the office for a certificate to operate an amusement ride.
(4) "Certificate of inspection" means a certificate issued by a licensed inspector that an amusement ride meets all relevant provisions of this article and the standards and regulations adopted pursuant thereto.
(5) "Commissioner" means the Safety Fire Commissioner.
(6) "Licensed inspector" means a registered professional engineer or any other person who is found by the office to possess the requisite training and experience to perform competently the inspections required by this article and who is licensed by the office to perform inspections of amusement rides.
(7) "Operator" means a person or persons actually engaged in or directly controlling the operation of an amusement ride.
(8) "Office" means the office of Safety Fire Commissioner, which is designated to enforce the provisions of this article and to formulate and enforce standards and regulations.
(9) "Owner" means a person, including the state or any of its subdivisions, who owns an amusement ride or, in the event that the amusement ride is leased, the lessee.
(10) "Permit" means a permit to operate an amusement ride issued to an owner by the office.
(11) "Permit fee" means the fee charged by the office for a permit to operate an amusement ride.
(12) "Standards and regulations" means those standards and regulations formulated and enforced by the office.

## History

Transferred from 34-12-2 and amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 3, eff. 5/2/2012.
