# § 47-23-100. Salary defined

(a) As used in this article, the term "salary" means:
  (1) For superior court judges, the earnable monthly compensation from state funds provided by law for judges of the superior courts on the date the member begins receiving a retirement benefit;
  (2) For district attorneys, the earnable monthly compensation from state funds provided by law for district attorneys on the date the member begins receiving a retirement benefit;
  (3) For judges and solicitors-general of state courts, the average earnable monthly compensation received as such judge or solicitor-general; provided, however, that for members who become members after July 1, 1998, such amount shall not exceed the salary from state funds provided by law for superior court judges;
  (4) For juvenile court judges, the average earnable monthly compensation received as such juvenile judge; provided, however, that for members who become members after July 1, 1998, such amount shall not exceed the salary from state funds provided by law for superior court judges;
  (5) For any person who is a member of the retirement system pursuant to Code Section 47-23-49, his or her average earnable monthly compensation; and
  (6) For any member who is a member of the retirement system for whom the provisions of Code Section 47-23-43.1 are applicable, his or her average earnable monthly compensation.
(b) The monthly employee contributions made by the employer on behalf of the member under Code Sections 47-23-80, 47-23-81, and 47-23-82 shall be used in the computation of the member's salary for the computation of the member's retirement benefits.
(c) Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary, a member's salary shall be subject to limitations set forth in Code Section 47-1-13.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 383,§ 2, eff. July 1, 2020, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law".
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 371,§ 2, eff. July 1, 2020, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law".
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 103,§ 36, eff. 7/1/2005.
