# § 47-23-64. Transfer of funds from Employees' Retirement System of Georgia by judges, solicitor general, or district attorneys; crediting service

(a)
  (1) Any superior court judge, state court judge, solicitor general, or district attorney who was previously an active member of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia may elect to have all contributions made by or on behalf of such member transferred from such retirement system to this retirement system. Any such member shall notify the board of trustees of each retirement system not later than December 31, 2002, or within 90 days after first becoming a member of this retirement system, whichever date is later.
  (2) If the member subject to this subsection has not withdrawn his or her employee contributions from the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, then upon receipt of the notice provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia shall transfer to the board of trustees of this retirement system all employer and employee contributions paid by or on behalf of the employee, together with regular interest thereon.
  (3) If the member subject to this subsection has withdrawn his or her employee contributions from the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, then at the time of giving the notice provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the member shall pay to the board of trustees of this retirement system the total of such contributions, together with regular interest thereon. Upon receipt of such notice and payment of such amount, the Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia shall transfer to the board of trustees of this retirement system all employer contributions paid on behalf of the employee, together with regular interest thereon.
  (4) The member subject to this subsection is authorized, but not required, to pay to the board of trustees such funds in addition to the amounts provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection as the member desires.
(b) Upon receipt of the funds provided for in paragraphs (2), (3), and (4) of subsection (a) of this Code section, the board of trustees of this retirement system shall credit the member with only the number of years of creditable service, not to exceed the actual years of prior service, as the amount so transferred or paid will warrant without creating any accrued liability as to this retirement system, calculated as if the member had either elected or rejected spouse's survivors benefits, at the election of the member.
(c) No creditable service may be obtained pursuant to the provisions of this Code section for any period for which creditable service has been or may be obtained in any other state or local public retirement system.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 998, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 4, §1, eff. 2/12/2001.
See 2002 Ga. Laws 998, § 2.
