# § 47-23-109. Cessation of retirement allowance for resuming state service; required notification

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, if any retired member returns to the service of the state in any position, including, without limitation, service directly or indirectly as or for an independent contractor, except as a member of the General Assembly, his or her retirement allowance shall cease. Upon cessation of such service, the retired member, after proper notification to the board, shall receive the same retirement allowance which he or she was receiving prior to returning to state service, calculated with any increases granted during the period of compensation.
(b) The retirement allowance of a retired member who returns to the service of the state in any position, including, without limitation, service directly or indirectly as or for an independent contractor, other than as a member of the General Assembly shall not cease, provided that such member performs no more than 1,040 hours of such service in any calendar year.
(c) Any state entity that employs a retired plan member, other than for service in the General Assembly as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, shall within 30 days of the employee's accepting employment notify the board in writing stating the name of the plan member and the number of hours the employee is expected to work annually and shall provide such other information as the board may request. If the retired plan member performs more than 1,040 hours of work in any calendar year, the employer shall so notify the board as soon as such information is available. Any employer that fails to notify the board as required by this subsection shall reimburse the retirement system for any benefits wrongfully paid. It shall be the duty of the retired plan member seeking employment by the employer to notify the employer of his or her retirement status prior to accepting such position. If a retired plan member fails to so notify the employer and the employer becomes liable to the retirement system, the plan member shall hold the employer harmless for all such liability.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 215,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 275,§ 34, eff. 5/11/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 156,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
