# § 47-23-102. Vesting; benefits upon retirement; compliance with federal income tax laws

(a) The right of a member to receive benefits under this chapter shall vest after the member obtains ten years of creditable service; provided, however, that no member shall receive a retirement benefit prior to attaining the age of 60 years. Except as otherwise provided in Article 2 of Chapter 1 of this title, a member's accumulated contributions shall be 100 percent vested and nonforfeitable at all times. Any member retiring on or after July 1, 1996, and any member who was retired on July 1, 1996, with 16 years or more of creditable service shall receive a benefit equal to 66.66 percent, plus 1 percent for each year of creditable service over 16 years, of the member's salary; provided, however, that no member shall receive more than 24 years of creditable service. Any member retiring with less than 16 years of creditable service may retire at a reduced benefit pursuant to Code Section 47-23-103. Normal retirement age under this retirement system shall be the date the member has reached age 60 years of age, provided that he or she has at least ten years of creditable service. For purposes of Section 402(1) of the federal Internal Revenue Code regarding distributions from governmental plans for health and long-term care insurance for public safety officers, normal retirement age shall be the earliest date when the member has satisfied the requirements for a retirement under this or the predecessor retirement system. Except as otherwise provided in Article 2 of Chapter 1 of this title, a member's right to his or her retirement allowance is nonforfeitable upon attainment of normal retirement age. Any member who was retired on July 1, 1996, with more than 16 years of creditable service shall receive in July, 1998, a one-time benefit payment equal to two times the product of 1 percent of the salary paid to such judge at the time of his or her retirement multiplied by the number of years of creditable service in excess of 16 years.
(b) The board is authorized to provide by rule or regulation for the payment of benefits to members or beneficiaries of the retirement system at a time and under circumstances not provided for in this chapter to the extent that such payment is required to maintain the retirement system as a qualified retirement plan for the purposes of federal income tax laws and regulations.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 215,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 275,§ 33, eff. 5/11/2009.
