# § 47-23-43.1. Membership for persons employed by the Office of Legislative Counsel in full-time positions requiring admission to State Bar of Georgia

(a) On and after July 1, 2020, each individual employed pursuant to Code Section 28-4-3 in a full-time position requiring admission to and good standing with the State Bar of Georgia as a condition of employment shall become a member of this retirement system; provided, however, that each individual so employed as of June 30, 2020, who is not already a member of this retirement system shall remain a member of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia unless he or she elects to become a member of this retirement system on or before June 30, 2021, notifies the board of such election, and pays to the retirement system the remaining amount necessary to pay for the full actuarial cost to the retirement system associated with his or her transfer of service. Upon such election and payment, such an individual shall become a member of this retirement system, the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia shall transfer to this retirement system all employer and employee contributions paid by or on behalf of him or her together with regular interest thereon, and he or she shall receive service in this retirement system toward vesting only in the full amount of the service he or she rendered as an employee while he or she was a member of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia and for which credit was allowable in such system.
(b) This Code section shall only apply to or affect individuals who are employed on or after July 1, 2020, pursuant to Code Section 28-4-3 in a full-time position requiring admission to and good standing with the State Bar of Georgia as a condition of employment. Members of this retirement system who are so employed shall be subject to all provisions of this chapter applicable to solicitors-general of the state courts, except as otherwise specifically provided by this chapter. For the purposes of this retirement system, for each such member, his or her earnable monthly compensation shall be the full rate of regular monthly compensation paid from state funds to such member employee for his or her full working time.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 383,§ 1, eff. July 1, 2020, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law".
