# § 47-23-80. Contributions by superior court judges and district attorneys; employer contributions

(a) The provisions of this Code section shall be applicable to judges of the superior courts and district attorneys. The amount of employee contributions to the fund by superior court judges shall be 7 1/2 percent of the earnable monthly compensation from state funds provided by law for judges of the superior courts. The amount of employee contributions to the fund by district attorneys shall be 7 1/2 percent of the earnable monthly compensation from state funds provided by law for district attorneys. The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia and the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia, as appropriate, are authorized to deduct 7 1/2 percent monthly from the earnable monthly compensation of each judge of the superior courts and each district attorney who is a member of the retirement system to cover the employee contributions to the fund. The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia and the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia, as appropriate, are also authorized to make an additional deduction from such earnable monthly compensation to cover any required employee tax for social security coverage. The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia and the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia, as appropriate, are authorized and directed to pay, from the funds appropriated or otherwise available, any required employer contribution for social security coverage on such judges and district attorneys. From funds appropriated or otherwise available, The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia and the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia, as appropriate, are authorized and directed to pay into the fund the employer contributions, including contributions to fund any creditable service authorized by this chapter, which, together with employee contributions and the earnings of the fund, shall be an amount sufficient to fund the service and disability retirement benefits and the spouses' benefits under this chapter.
(b) The deductions from state earnable monthly compensation and allowances payable to judges of the superior courts and district attorneys shall be made, notwithstanding that the compensation and allowances fixed by law for such judges and district attorneys shall be reduced thereby. Such judges and district attorneys shall be deemed to consent and agree to the deductions made; and payment of the earnable monthly compensation and allowances, less such deductions, shall be a full and complete discharge of all claims and demands whatsoever for the services rendered by such judges and district attorneys during the period covered by such payment.
(c) The employer shall pay to the retirement system on each and every payroll period employee contributions on behalf of and to the credit of each judge and district attorney in an amount equal to the amount which would be paid to the annuity savings fund pursuant to Code Section 47-2-54 if the judge or district attorney were a member of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia. Such members shall continue to have deducted from their state earnable monthly compensation the additional amount of employee contributions required by this chapter. Such monthly contributions made by the employer on behalf of a member shall be included in the computation of the member's state earnable monthly compensation for purposes of computing retirement benefits.
(d) All members shall retain, have, and be subject to all other rights, privileges, obligations, and duties otherwise provided for in this chapter; and all such other provisions shall remain of full force and effect with respect to any matter not specifically provided for in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(e) The employee contributions described in this chapter that are paid by the employer are intended to be pick-up contributions in accordance with Section 414(h) of the federal Internal Revenue Code. Such contributions are mandatory, and no member is entitled under any circumstances to receive such contributions in cash in lieu of having them contributed to the retirement system. Such contributions shall be 100 percent vested for all purposes under the retirement system.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 521,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 64, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 157,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 103,§ 33, eff. 7/1/2005.
