# § 47-23-29. Survivors benefits - Group term life insurance

(a) Wherever the term "survivors benefits" is used or referred to in this chapter, it shall be construed to be group term life insurance. Whenever reference is made in this Code section to members of this retirement system, such reference shall include active superior court judges subject to Chapter 8 of this title.
(b) Pursuant to the provisions of this Code section and rules and regulations adopted for such purpose, the board of trustees may provide for survivors benefits for members, former members, and retired members of the retirement system; provided, however, that the provisions of this Code section shall apply only to persons who are active members of this retirement system on or after July 1, 2002; provided, further, that no person who becomes or again becomes a member of this retirement system on or after July 1, 2009, shall be entitled to survivors benefits under this Code section.
(c) Contributions for survivors benefits shall be provided for and administered in the following manner:
  (1) After notice from the board of trustees, each employer shall cause to be deducted from the earnable monthly compensation of each member an additional amount established by the board of trustees, but such amount shall not exceed one-half of 1 percent of the member's earnable monthly compensation. Such deductions shall be made under the same conditions as set forth in Code Section 47-23-41. A member's payment for coverage shall vest in the member no rights other than for the period for which the member has paid the required additional contributions into the survivors benefit fund; and
  (2) There is authorized an employer payment to the fund which shall be a percentage of the earnable monthly compensation of the members of the retirement system. The board of trustees shall establish the rate of such payment, but in no case shall such rate, when added to the members' contributions, exceed 1 percent. Funds for employer payment shall be requested in the same manner as provided in Article 5 of this chapter.
(d) The board of trustees may adopt any rules or regulations which are not in conflict with this Code section and which it deems necessary in establishing and maintaining the plan of operation, including benefit tables and other provisions of coverage.
(e) The survivors benefits program may provide for a reduction of benefits after the attainment of a certain age and for a different or no contribution after retirement based on such reduction in benefits. The board of trustees is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to carry out this subsection.
(f) Any other provisions of this chapter or any rules or regulations to the contrary notwithstanding, any member who withdraws from service before attaining age 60 but whose right to a service retirement allowance has vested under Code Section 47-23-102 may continue paying the amount under this Code section which the member was paying at the time of withdrawing from service, together with the amount of the employer contribution in effect at the time of such withdrawal, in which case the benefits under this Code section shall remain fixed at the same amount as they would have been had the member died on the day immediately preceding the member's withdrawal. Only those members with at least 18 years of creditable service at the time of withdrawal from service shall be eligible under this subsection, subject to the provisions of subsection (e) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 94,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 61,§ 4, eff. 6/30/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 103,§ 32, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 997, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
