# § 47-23-106. County supplement of salaries

(a) Whenever any county within a judicial circuit supplements the state salary paid to active superior court judges or the district attorney of said circuit, the governing authority of such county shall be authorized, but not required, to supplement the benefit being paid pursuant to this chapter to any retired superior court judge or district attorney of said circuit who is receiving benefits pursuant to this chapter or to supplement the benefit being paid pursuant to this chapter to any beneficiary of any deceased superior court judge or district attorney.
(b) Whenever any county which has a state court supplements the salary of the judges or solicitors-general of such court, the governing authority of such county shall be authorized, but not required, to supplement the benefit being paid pursuant to this chapter to any retired state court judge of such court who is receiving benefits pursuant to this chapter or supplement the benefit being paid pursuant to this chapter to any beneficiary of any deceased state court judge.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section, for any single county judicial circuit where the county site is located in an unincorporated area of the county and the county governing authority has constructed one or more permanent satellite courthouses within the county, said county shall supplement the benefit amount being paid pursuant to this chapter to any district attorney who retired from such circuit. The amount of the supplement shall be determined by multiplying the benefit percentage he or she earned pursuant to Code Section 47-23-102at retirement together with the aggregate county salary supplement being paid to the active district attorney on the date that he or she begins receiving a retirement benefit or the supplement paid to the retiring district attorney upon his or her last day of service as district attorney, whichever is greater. The supplement shall not be payable to a spouse or survivor pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 47-23-105.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 396,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
