# § 47-23-82. Contributions by juvenile court judges; employer contributions; reports required

(a) The provisions of this Code section shall be applicable to juvenile court judges. The basis for employer and employee contributions to the fund with respect to juvenile court judges shall be the earnable monthly compensation paid to such judges by the employing units paying the cost of the operation of the juvenile courts, unless such earnable monthly compensation exceeds the state earnable monthly compensation paid to superior court judges, as now or hereafter fixed by law, in which event the basis for such employer and employee contributions shall be the same as the state earnable monthly compensation paid to judges of the superior courts.
(b)
  (1) The employee contributions with respect to juvenile court judges who are compensated by earnable monthly compensation paid by the employing units which pay the costs of the operation of such courts shall be 7 1/2 percent of the amount of such earnable monthly compensation. A person to be designated by each such employing unit shall report the amount of such earnable monthly compensation to the board by not later than the fifteenth day of each calendar month. The employing units are authorized, but not required, to pay any portion of the employee contribution on behalf of the member and to deduct such employee contributions from the earnable monthly compensation of such juvenile court judges and to pay the contributions into the fund. An employing unit which so elects to pay any portion of the employee contribution shall apply such provisions on behalf of all juvenile court judges employed by such employing unit now or in the future, and such provisions shall apply only to the earnable monthly compensation earned by the employing unit's juvenile court judges after the effective date of the election by such employing unit to pay such member's employee contributions. Such contributions shall be forwarded to the board at the same time the report of the earnable monthly compensation of such juvenile court judges is forwarded. The employing unit is also authorized to make an additional deduction from such earnable monthly compensation to cover any required employee tax for social security coverage. The deduction from the earnable monthly compensation payable to such juvenile court judges shall be made, notwithstanding that such earnable monthly compensation fixed by law for such juvenile court judges is reduced thereby. Such juvenile court judges shall be deemed to consent and agree to the deductions made; and payment of such earnable monthly compensation, less such deductions, shall be a full and complete discharge of all claims and demands whatsoever for the services rendered by such juvenile court judges during the period covered by such payment.
  (2) The Council of Juvenile Court Judges is authorized and directed to pay into the fund provided for by this chapter monthly employer contributions, including contributions to fund any creditable service authorized by this chapter. Such amounts are to be determined by the board and, together with employee contributions and the earnings of the fund, shall be an amount sufficient to fund the service and disability retirement benefits under this chapter.
(c) It shall be the duty of each employing unit affected by this chapter to designate a responsible person to submit the reports and forward the employee contributions set forth in this Code section. It shall be the duty of the person so designated to comply with this Code section. If the required reports and employee contributions are not forwarded to the board or if duplicate copies of the reports are not directed to the Office of the State Treasurer, in accordance with this Code section, as appropriate, the Office of the State Treasurer is authorized to withhold any state payments payable to the governmental unit failing to forward such reports and employee contributions until such time as such reports and contributions have been received.
(d) All members shall retain, have, and be subject to all other rights, privileges, obligations, and duties otherwise provided for in this chapter; and all such other provisions shall remain of full force and effect with respect to any matter not specifically provided for in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(e) The employee contributions described in this chapter that are paid by the employer are intended to be pick-up contributions in accordance with Section 414(h) of the federal Internal Revenue Code. Such contributions are mandatory, and no member is entitled under any circumstances to receive such contributions in cash in lieu of having them contributed to the retirement system. Such contributions shall be 100 percent vested for all purposes under the retirement system.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 521,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 157,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 103,§ 35, eff. 7/1/2005.
