# § 47-23-20. Administration; membership of the board; term; compensation; quorum

(a) There is created the Georgia Judicial Retirement System which shall be administered by the Board of Trustees of the Georgia Judicial Retirement System provided for by this Code section.
(b) The board shall be composed of all members of the Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia and three additional members appointed by the Governor, each of whom shall be either:
  (1) A superior court judge;
  (2) A state court judge;
  (3) A district attorney;
  (4) A state court solicitor-general; or
  (5) A juvenile court judge.
(c) The first members appointed by the Governor pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall be appointed to take office on July 1, 1998. The Governor shall designate two of the initial appointees to serve initial terms of two years and one of the initial appointees to serve a term of four years. Thereafter, the Governor shall appoint successors to take office upon the expiration of the respective terms of office for terms of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Such members of the board shall be eligible for successive appointment as members and shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. Any vacancy for any reason in the membership of the board appointed by the Governor shall be filled by appointment of the Governor for the unexpired term.
(d) The trustees may receive the daily expense allowance authorized for members of the General Assembly for each day spent attending meetings of the board of trustees and any committee meetings called pursuant to authorization of the board of trustees and for time spent in necessary travel. In addition to such amount, the trustees shall be reimbursed for all actual travel and other expenses necessarily incurred through service on the board of trustees. State officials serving ex officio shall not receive the daily expense allowance but shall be entitled to reimbursement of actual expenses.
(e) Six members at any meeting of the board shall constitute a quorum to transact business, but the affirmative vote of five members shall be necessary for a decision by the board.
(f) The officers and director of the board shall be the same as the officers and director of the Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia.
