# § 17-14-14. Restitution payments; wage assignments; review of compliance; interest

(a) Payments pursuant to an order for restitution shall be made to the clerk of the court or to any other person, for the benefit of the victim or victims, as the ordering authority shall order.
(b) In each case in which payment of restitution is ordered as a condition of probation or parole, the ordering authority may require any employed offender to execute a wage assignment to pay the restitution.
(c) Until such time as the restitution has been paid or the sentence has been completed, the clerk of court or the community supervision officer, county or Department of Juvenile Justice juvenile probation officer, or probation officer serving pursuant to Article 6 of Chapter 8 of Title 42 assigned to the case, whoever is responsible for collecting restitution, shall review the case not less frequently than twice yearly to ensure that restitution is being paid as ordered. If the restitution was ordered to be made within a specific period of time, the case shall be reviewed at the end of the specific period of time to determine if the restitution has been paid in full. The final review shall be conducted before the sentence or probationary or parole period expires. If it is determined at any review that restitution is not being paid as ordered, a written report of the violation shall be filed with the court on a form prescribed by the Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia.
(d) If the ordering authority permits the offender to pay restitution in other than a lump sum, the ordering authority may require the offender to pay interest on the amount of restitution due the victim or the victim's estate. Such interest shall be set at the same rate as is provided by Code Section 7-4-12 for judgments.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-37, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 20,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2005.
