# § 17-14-2. Definitions

(1) "Conviction" means an adjudication of guilt of or a plea of guilty or nolo contendere to the commission of an offense against the laws of this state. Such term includes any such conviction or plea, notwithstanding the fact that sentence was imposed pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 42. Such term also includes the adjudication or plea of a juvenile to the commission of an act which, if committed by an adult, would constitute a crime under the laws of this state.
(2) "Damages" means all special damages which a victim could recover against an offender in a civil action, including a wrongful death action, based on the same act or acts for which the offender is sentenced, except punitive damages and damages for pain and suffering, mental anguish, or loss of consortium. Such special damages shall not be limited by any law which may cap economic damages. Special damages may include the reasonably determined costs of transportation to and from court proceedings related to the prosecution of the crime.
(3) "Offender" means any natural person, firm, partnership, association, public or private corporation, or other legal entity that has been sentenced for any crime or any juvenile who has been adjudged delinquent.
(4) "Ordering authority" means:
  (A) A court of competent jurisdiction;
  (B) The State Board of Pardons and Paroles;
  (C) The Department of Corrections;
  (D) The Department of Juvenile Justice;
  (E) The Department of Community Supervision; or
  (F) Any combination thereof, as is required by the context.
(5) "Parent" means a person who is the legal mother as defined in Code Section 15-11-2, the legal father as defined in Code Section 15-11-2, or the legal guardian. Such term shall not include a foster parent.
(6) "Relief" means any parole or other conditional release from incarceration; the awarding of earned time allowances; reduction in security status; or placement in prison rehabilitation programs, including, but not limited to, those in which the offender receives monetary compensation.
(7) "Restitution" means any property, lump sum, or periodic payment ordered to be made by any offender or other person to any victim by any ordering authority. Where the victim is a public corporation or governmental entity or where the offender is a juvenile, restitution may also be in the form of services ordered to be performed by the offender.
(8) "Restitution order" means any order, decree, or judgment of an ordering authority which requires an offender to make restitution.
(9) "Victim" means any:
  (A) Natural person or his or her personal representative or, if the victim is deceased, his or her estate; or
  (B) Any firm, partnership, association, public or private corporation, or governmental entity suffering damages caused by an offender's unlawful act; provided, however, that the term "victim" shall not include any person who is concerned in the commission of such unlawful act as defined in Code Section 16-2-20.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-35, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 4-19, eff. 1/1/2014.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 20,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2005.
