# § 36-74-26. Administrative fines; public record

(a) An enforcement board, upon notification by the code enforcement officer that an order of the enforcement board has not been complied with by the set time may order the violator to pay an administrative fine in an amount specified in this Code section.
(b)
  (1) An administrative fine imposed pursuant to this Code section for a violation involving the health or safety of a third party shall not exceed $1,000.00 per day.
  (2) An administrative fine imposed pursuant to this Code section for a violation that is not a violation involving the health or safety of a third party shall not exceed a total of $1,000.00.
  (3) In determining the amount of the fine, if any, the enforcement board shall consider the following factors:
    (A) The gravity of the violation;
    (B) Any actions taken by the violator to correct the violation; and
    (C) Any previous violations committed by the violator.
  (4) An enforcement board may reduce a fine imposed pursuant to this Code section.
(c) A certified copy of an order imposing an administrative fine may be recorded in the public records of any county and thereafter shall constitute a lien against the land on which the violation exists and upon any real or personal property owned by the violator. Upon petition to the superior court, such order may be enforced in the same manner as a court judgment by the sheriffs of this state, including levy against the personal property, but such order shall not be deemed to be a court judgment except for enforcement purposes. After three months from the filing of any such lien which remains unpaid, the enforcement board may request the local governing body attorney to foreclose on the lien.
(d) If an environmental court is in existence with jurisdiction over ordinances subject to the jurisdiction of the enforcement board, the violator may object to the fine imposed and submit to the jurisdiction of the environmental court. The case shall be transferred to the environmental court and handled de novo as an ordinance violation.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 596,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2012.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 239, § 2, eff. 6/3/2003.
