# § 36-74-21. Definitions

(1) "Code enforcement officer" means any person contracted with or employed by a county or municipality who has enforcement authority for health, safety, or welfare requirements and is authorized to issue citations or file formal complaints regarding the same.
(2) "County or municipal codes and ordinances" means zoning ordinances and resolutions, ordinances and resolutions enacting subdivision regulations, environmental ordinances and resolutions, state minimum standard codes provided for in Code Section 8-2-25, ordinances and resolutions enacted pursuant to Code Section 8-2-25, other ordinances and resolutions regulating the development of real property, and ordinances and regulations providing for control of litter and debris, control of junked or abandoned vehicles, and control of overgrown vegetation. Notwithstanding the above, the term "county and municipal codes and ordinances" shall not include:
  (A) Those codes and ordinances requiring a permit, unless the alleged violator has failed to secure all necessary valid permits under said codes and ordinances; or
  (B) Any local amendments to the state minimum standard codes provided for in Code Section 8-2-25 that have not been adopted in conformity with the requirements of subsection (c) of Code Section 8-2-25.
(3) "Enforcement board" means a local government code enforcement board.
(4) "Local governing body" means the governing authority of the county or municipality, however designated.
(5) "Local governing body attorney" means the legal counselor for the county or municipality.
(6) "Violation involving the health or safety of a third party" means a violation that creates a legitimate concern for the health and safety of a third-party occupant of a dwelling place or that creates an immediate and substantial danger to the environment.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 596,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 239, § 2, eff. 6/3/2003.
