# § 36-74-41. Definitions

(1) "Code inspector" means any authorized agent or employee of the county or municipality whose duty it is to assure code compliance.
(2) "County or municipal codes and ordinances" means zoning ordinances and resolutions, ordinances and resolutions enacting subdivision regulations, environmental ordinances and resolutions, state minimum standard codes provided for in Code Section 8-2-25, ordinances and resolutions enacted pursuant to Code Section 8-2-25, other ordinances and resolutions regulating the development of real property, and ordinances and regulations providing for control of litter and debris, control of junked or abandoned vehicles, and control of overgrown vegetation. Notwithstanding the above, the term "county and municipal codes and ordinances" shall not include:
  (A) Those codes and ordinances requiring a permit, unless the alleged violator has failed to secure all necessary valid permits under said codes and ordinances; or
  (B) Any local amendments to the state minimum standard codes provided for in Code Section 8-2-25 that have not been adopted in conformity with the requirements of subsection (c) of Code Section 8-2-25.
(3) "Enforcement board" means a local government code enforcement board.
(4) "Local governing body" means the governing authority of the county or municipality, however designated.
(5) "Local governing body attorney" means the legal counselor for the county or municipality.
(6) "Repeat violation" means any violation of county or municipal codes or ordinances by an owner or co-owner whom the enforcement board has previously found to be in violation of a code or ordinance within one year prior to such violation.
(7) "Violation involving the health or safety of a third party" means a violation that creates a legitimate concern for the health and safety of a third-party occupant of a dwelling place or that creates an immediate and substantial danger to the environment or members of the community at large, especially minor children.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 239, § 2, eff. 6/3/2003.
