# § 36-74-46. Administrative fines; public record

(a)
  (1) An administrative fine imposed pursuant to this Code section for a violation involving the health or safety of a third party shall not exceed $1,000.00 per day.
  (2) An administrative fine imposed pursuant to this Code section for a violation that is not a violation involving the health or safety of a third party shall not exceed a total of $1,000.00.
  (3) In determining the amount of the fine, if any, the enforcement board shall consider the following factors:
    (A) The gravity of the violation;
    (B) Any actions taken by the violator to correct the violation; and
    (C) Any previous violations committed by the violator.
  (4) An enforcement board may reduce a fine imposed pursuant to this Code section.
(b) A certified copy of an order imposing an administrative fine may be recorded in the public records of any county and thereafter shall constitute a lien against the land on which the violation exists and upon any real or personal property owned by the violator. Upon petition to the superior court, such order may be enforced in the same manner as a court judgment by the sheriffs of this state, including levy against the personal property, but such order shall not be deemed to be a court judgment except for enforcement purposes. After three months from the filing of any such lien which remains unpaid, the enforcement board may request the local governing body attorney to foreclose on the lien.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 239, § 2, eff. 6/3/2003.
