# § 36-74-44. Calling of hearings; hearing proceedings; orders

(a) Upon request of the code inspector, or at such other times as may be necessary, the chairperson of an enforcement board may call a hearing of an enforcement board; a hearing also may be called by written notice signed by at least three members of a seven-member enforcement board or signed by at least two members of a five-member enforcement board. Minutes shall be kept of all hearings by each enforcement board, and all hearings and proceedings shall be open to the public. The local governing body may provide or assign clerical and administrative personnel to assist the enforcement board in the proper performance of its duties.
(b) Each case before an enforcement board shall be presented by the local governing body attorney or by a code inspector or other member of the administrative staff of the local governing body.
(c) An enforcement board shall proceed to hear the cases on the agenda for that day. All testimony shall be under oath and shall be recorded. The enforcement board shall take testimony from the code inspector and alleged violator. Formal rules of evidence shall not apply, but fundamental due process shall be observed and shall govern the proceedings.
(d) At the conclusion of the hearing, the enforcement board shall issue findings of fact, based on evidence of record and conclusions of law, and shall issue an order to comply or an order to pay an administrative fine consistent with powers granted in this article. The findings and conclusions and any order imposed shall be by motion approved by a majority of those members present and voting, except that at least four members of a seven-member enforcement board, three members of a five-member enforcement board, or two members of a three-member enforcement board must vote in order for the action to be official.
(e) An order to comply shall include notice that it must be complied with by a specified date and that an administrative fine may be imposed if the order is not complied with by such date.
(f) An order to pay a fine shall specify the amount of the fine as determined and voted upon by the enforcement board, as well as the date and time the fine is due. A certified copy of such order may be recorded in the public records of the county and shall constitute notice to any subsequent purchaser, successor in interest, or assign if the violation concerns real property, and the findings therein shall be binding upon the violator and, if the violation concerns real property, and subsequent purchaser, successor in interest, or assign. If an order is recorded in the public records pursuant to this subsection and the fine is paid by the date and time specified in the order, the enforcement board shall issue an order acknowledging that the fine has been paid in full and such order shall be recorded in the public records. A hearing is not required to issue such an order acknowledging the payment of a fine.
(g) The enforcement board may issue an order to pay a fine against the violator if the cited violation was not corrected within the time specified on the code inspector's notice or if an order to comply was not satisfied within the time specified in the order, even if said violation was corrected and brought into compliance prior to the hearing at which the fine is imposed.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 239, § 2, eff. 6/3/2003.
