# § 36-74-29. Notice required; form of notice

(a) All notices required by this article shall be provided to the alleged violator by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested; by hand delivery by the sheriff or other law enforcement officer, code enforcement officer, or other person designated by the local governing body; or by leaving the notice at the violator's usual place of residence with any person residing therein who is above 15 years of age and informing such person of the contents of the notice.
(b) In addition to providing notice as set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section, at the option of the code enforcement board, notice may also be served by publication or posting, as follows:
  (1) Notice may be published once during each week for four consecutive weeks (four publications being sufficient) in the newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements are printed in the county where the code enforcement board is located. Proof of publication shall be made by affidavit of a duly authorized representative of the newspaper;
  (2) If there is no newspaper of general circulation in the county where the code enforcement board is located, three copies of such notice shall be posted for at least 28 days in three different and conspicuous places in such county, one of which shall be at the front door of the courthouse in said county. Proof of posting shall be by affidavit of the person posting the notice, which affidavit shall include a copy of the notice posted and the date and places of its posting; or
  (3) Notice by publication or posting may run concurrently with, or may follow, an attempt or attempts to provide notice by hand delivery, mail, or statutory overnight delivery as required under subsection (a) of this Code section. Evidence that an attempt has been made to deliver notice by hand, mail, or statutory overnight delivery as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, together with proof of publication or posting as provided in this subsection, shall be sufficient to show that the notice requirements of this Code section have been met, without regard to whether or not the alleged violator actually received such notice.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 596,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2012.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 239, § 2, eff. 6/3/2003.
