# § 36-74-22. Membership of boards; requirements of members; chairperson; attorney's role

(a) The local governing body may appoint one or more code enforcement boards and legal counsel for the enforcement boards. The local governing body may appoint code enforcement boards consisting of three, five, or seven members. The local governing body may appoint up to two alternate members for each code enforcement board to serve on the board in the absence of board members.
(b) Members of the enforcement boards shall be residents of the municipality, in the case of municipal enforcement boards, or residents of the county, in the case of county enforcement boards. In making appointments to an enforcement board, the local governing body shall make good faith efforts to appoint one or more individuals who have experience or expertise relevant to one or more of the county or municipal codes that are within the subject matter jurisdiction of the respective enforcement board, including individuals with property management and litter control experience; provided, however, that the authority and jurisdiction of an enforcement board shall not in any way be limited due to the absence from its membership of one or more individuals with such experience or expertise.
(c)
  (1) The initial appointments to a seven-member code enforcement board shall be as follows:
    (A) Three members appointed for a term of two years each; and
    (B) Four members appointed for a term of four years each.
  (2) The initial appointments to a five-member code enforcement board shall be as follows:
    (A) Two members appointed for a term of two years each; and
    (B) Three members appointed for a term of four years each.
  (3) The initial appointments to a three-member code enforcement board shall be as follows:
    (A) One member appointed for a term of two years; and
    (B) Two members appointed for a term of four years each.
  (4) Upon the expiration of the initial terms specified in paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection all terms shall be for three years.
  (5) The local governing body of a county or a municipality may reduce a seven-member code enforcement board to five members, or a five-member code enforcement board to three members, upon the simultaneous expiration of the terms of office of two members of the board.
  (6) A member may be reappointed upon approval of the local governing body.
  (7) An appointment to fill any vacancy on an enforcement board shall be for the remainder of the unexpired term of office. If any member fails to attend two of three successive meetings without cause and without prior approval of the chairperson, the enforcement board shall declare the member's office vacant, and the local governing body shall promptly fill such vacancy.
  (8) The members shall serve in accordance with ordinances of the local governing body and may be suspended and removed for cause as provided in such ordinances for removal of members of boards. A local governing body may, with or without cause, refuse to reappoint any member of an enforcement board at the expiration of his or her term of office.
(d) The members of an enforcement board shall elect a chairperson, who shall be a voting member, from among the members of the board. The presence of four or more members shall constitute a quorum of any seven-member enforcement board, the presence of three or more members shall constitute a quorum of any five-member enforcement board, and the presence of two or more members shall constitute a quorum of any three-member enforcement board. Members shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for such travel, mileage, and per diem expenses as may be authorized by the local governing body or as otherwise provided by law.
(e) The local governing body attorney shall either be counsel to an enforcement board or shall represent the municipality or county by presenting cases before the enforcement board but in no case shall the local governing body attorney serve in both capacities.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 239, § 2, eff. 6/3/2003.
