# § 9-16-8. Forfeiture lien

(a) A state attorney may file, without a filing fee, a forfeiture lien upon the initiation of any civil forfeiture proceeding or criminal proceeding or upon seizure for forfeiture. The forfeiture lien filing shall constitute notice to any person claiming an interest in the property owned by the named person. The forfeiture lien shall include the following information:
  (1) The name of each person who has a known interest in the seized property and, in the discretion of the state attorney, any alias and any corporations, partnerships, trusts, or other entities, including nominees, that are either owned entirely or in part or controlled by such persons; and
  (2) A description of the property, the value of the property claimed by the state attorney, the name of the court where the civil forfeiture proceeding or criminal proceeding has been brought, and the case number of the civil forfeiture proceeding or criminal proceeding if known at the time of filing the forfeiture lien.
(b) A forfeiture lien filed pursuant to this Code section shall apply to:
  (1) The described property;
  (2) Each named person and any aliases, fictitious names, or other names, including names of corporations, partnerships, trusts, or other entities that are either owned entirely or in part or controlled by each named person; and
  (3) Any interest in real property owned or controlled by each named person.
(c) A forfeiture lien creates, upon filing, a lien in favor of the state as it relates to the seized property or to any named person or related entities with respect to such property. Such forfeiture lien secures the amount of potential liability for civil judgment and, if applicable, the fair market value of seized property relating to any civil forfeiture proceeding enforcing such lien. A forfeiture lien referred to in this Code section shall be filed in accordance with the provisions of the laws in this state pertaining to the type of property that is subject to the forfeiture lien. The state attorney may amend or release, in whole or in part, a forfeiture lien filed under this Code section at any time by filing, without a filing fee, an amended forfeiture lien in accordance with this Code section which identifies the forfeiture lien amended. The state attorney, as soon as practical after filing a forfeiture lien, shall furnish to any person named in the forfeiture lien a notice of the filing of the forfeiture lien. Failure to furnish such notice shall not invalidate or otherwise affect a forfeiture lien filed in accordance with this Code section.
(d) Upon entry of judgment in favor of the state, the state attorney may proceed to execute on the forfeiture lien as in the case of any other judgment.
(e) A trustee, constructive or otherwise, who has notice that a forfeiture lien, a notice of pending forfeiture, or a complaint for forfeiture has been filed against the property or against any person or entity for whom the person holds title or appears as the owner of record shall furnish, within ten days of receiving notice as provided by this subsection, to the state attorney the following information:
  (1) The name and address of the person or entity for whom the property is held;
  (2) The names and addresses of all beneficiaries for whose benefit legal title to the seized property, or property of the named person or related entity, is held; and
  (3) A copy of the applicable trust agreement or other instrument, if any, under which the trustee or other person holds legal title or appears as the owner of record of the property.
(f) A trustee, constructive or otherwise, who fails to comply with subsection (e) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
