# § 8-5-5. Duties of the art council

(1)
  (A) Determine and implement procedures for the purchase or lease by written contract of existing works of art from an artist or the artist's authorized agent. Works of art to be purchased or leased shall be selected by the council from lists of works prepared and submitted by advisory committees empowered by the council. In making such purchases or in executing such leases, preference may be given to artists who are Georgia residents. No lease obligation shall be incurred under the provisions of this chapter without the prior approval of the Office of Planning and Budget.
  (B) Determine and implement procedures, one of which shall provide for competition among artists, for the selection and commissioning of artists by written contract to create works of art. Commissioned artists shall be selected by the council from lists of qualified and available artists prepared and submitted by advisory committees empowered by the council. In making such contracts, preference may be given to artists who are Georgia residents.
  (C) If competition among artists is the procedure for selection of an artist pursuant to subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, a panel of three judges shall be appointed to make such selection. The panel shall consist of the director of the Office of Planning and Budget or a person designated by such director, a member of the council or a person designated by the council, and one person selected by the other two who shall be a visual artist, an architect or designer, a person employed by an art museum, or a collector of visual art. At least one judge on each panel shall be a working visual artist;
(2) Consult with each artist commissioned regarding the design and placement of a work of art;
(3) Ensure that works of art acquired pursuant to this chapter are placed in a manner so that they are within public view;
(4) Ensure that the program for acquisition of works of art pursuant to this chapter results in participation by many different artists and in acquisitions from among many of the different art forms referred to in paragraph (4) of Code Section 8-5-3. A person who is, or is related to, a member of the council or is employed by the council or a person related to or employed in the office of the director of the Office of Planning and Budget may not be selected or commissioned pursuant to this chapter;
(5) Cooperate with other affected state agencies and consult with the artist to ensure that each work of art acquired pursuant to this chapter is properly maintained and is not artistically altered in any manner without the consent of the artist;
(6) Promulgate rules and regulations, as necessary, in consultation with the council and any other person, group, or association in the State of Georgia related to architecture, design, or the arts so as to facilitate the implementation of the council's responsibilities under this chapter; and
(7) Authorize payments to artists for works of art acquired pursuant to this chapter.
