# § 51-12-78. Redirecting payments; liability of transferee; dividing payment; compliance

(a) Following a transfer of structured settlement payment rights, the structured settlement obligor and the annuity issuer may rely on the court order approving the transfer in redirecting periodic payments to an assignee or transferee in accordance with the order approving the transfer and shall, as to all parties except the transferee or an assignee designated by the transferee, be discharged and released from any and all liability for the redirected payments. Such discharge and release shall not be affected by the failure of any party to the transfer to comply with this article or with the court order approving the transfer.
(b) The transferee shall be liable to the structured settlement obligor and the annuity issuer:
  (1) If the transfer contravenes the terms of the structured settlement, for any taxes incurred by the structured settlement obligor or annuity issuer as a consequence of the transfer; and
  (2) For any other liabilities or costs, including reasonable costs and attorney fees, arising from compliance by the structured settlement obligor or annuity issuer with the court order approving the transfer, or from the failure of any party to the transfer to comply with this article.
(c) Neither the annuity issuer nor the structured settlement obligor may be required to divide any periodic payment between the payee and any transferee or assignee or between two or more transferees or assignees.
(d) Any further transfer of structured settlement payment rights by the payee may be made only after compliance with all of the requirements of this article.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 275,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
