# § 16-9-100. Definitions

(1) "Advertiser" means a person or entity that advertises through the use of commercial e-mail.
(2) "Automatic technical process" means the actions performed by an e-mail service provider's or telecommunications carrier's computers or computer network while acting as an intermediary between the sender and the recipient of an e-mail.
(3) "Commercial e-mail" means any e-mail message initiated for the purpose of advertising or promoting the lease, sale, rental, gift, offer, or other disposition of any property, services, or extension of credit.
(4) "Direct consent" means that the recipient has expressly consented to receive e-mail advertisements from the advertiser or initiator, either in response to a clear and conspicuous request for direct consent or at the recipient's own initiative.
(5) "Domain" means any alphanumeric designation which is registered with or assigned by any domain name registrar, domain name registry, or other domain name registration authority as part of an electronic address on the Internet.
(6) "Domain owner" means, in relation to an e-mail address, the actual owner at the time an e-mail is received at that address of a domain that appears in or comprises a portion of the e-mail address. The registrant of a domain is presumed to be the actual owner of that domain.
(7) "E-mail" means an electronic message that is sent to an e-mail address and transmitted between two or more telecommunications devices, computers, or electronic devices capable of receiving electronic messages, whether or not the message is converted to hard copy format after receipt, viewed upon transmission, or stored for later retrieval. The term includes electronic messages that are transmitted through a local, regional, or global computer network.
(8) "E-mail address" means a destination, commonly expressed as a string of characters, to which e-mail can be sent or delivered. An e-mail address consists of a user name or mailbox, the "@" symbol, and reference to a domain.
(9) "E-mail service provider" means any person, including an Internet service provider, that is an intermediary in sending or receiving e-mail or that provides to end-users of the e-mail service the ability to send or receive e-mail.
(10) "False or misleading," when used in relation to a commercial e-mail, means that:
  (A) The header information includes an originating or intermediate e-mail address, domain name, or Internet protocol address which was obtained by means of false or fraudulent pretenses or representations;
  (B) The header information fails to accurately identify the computer used to initiate the e-mail;
  (C) The subject line of the e-mail is intended to mislead a recipient about a material fact regarding the content or subject matter of the e-mail;
  (D) The header information is altered or modified in a manner that impedes or precludes the recipient of the e-mail or an e-mail service provider from identifying, locating, or contacting the person who initiated the e-mail;
  (E) The header information or content of the commercial e-mail, without authorization and with intent to mislead, references a personal name, entity name, trade name, mark, domain, address, phone number, or other personally identifying information belonging to a third party in such manner as would cause a recipient to believe that the third party authorized, endorsed, sponsored, sent, or was otherwise involved in the transmission of the commercial e-mail;
  (F) The header information or content of the commercial e-mail contains false or fraudulent information regarding the identity, location, or means of contacting the initiator of the commercial e-mail; or
  (G) The commercial e-mail falsely or erroneously states or represents that the transmission of the e-mail was authorized on the basis of:
    (i) The recipient's prior direct consent to receive the commercial e-mail; or
    (ii) A preexisting or current business relationship between the recipient and either the initiator or advertiser.
(11) "Header information" means those portions of an e-mail message which designate or otherwise identify:
  (A) The sender;
  (B) All recipients;
  (C) An alternative return e-mail address, if any; and
  (D) The names or Internet protocol addresses of the computers, systems, or other means used to send, transmit, route, or receive the e-mail message. The term does not include either the subject line or the content of an e-mail message.
(12) "Incident" means the contemporaneous initiation in violation of this part of one or more commercial e-mails containing substantially similar content.
(13) "Initiate" or "initiator" means to transmit or cause to be transmitted a commercial e-mail, but does not include the routine transmission of the commercial e-mail through the network or system of a telecommunications utility or an e-mail service provider.
(14) "Internet protocol address" means the unique numerical address assigned to and used to identify a specific computer or computer network that is directly connected to the Internet.
(15) "Minor" means any person under the age of 18 years.
(16) "Person" means a person as defined by Code Section 16-1-3 and specifically includes any limited liability company, trust, joint venture, or other legally cognizable entity.
(17) "Preexisting or current business relationship," as used in connection with the sending of a commercial e-mail, means that the recipient has made an inquiry and has provided his or her e-mail address, or has made an application, purchase, or transaction, with or without consideration, regarding products or services offered by the advertiser.
(18) "Protected computer" means any computer that, at the time of an alleged violation of any provision of this part involving that computer, was located within the geographic boundaries of the State of Georgia.
(19) "Recipient" means any addressee of a commercial e-mail advertisement. If an addressee of a commercial e-mail has one or more e-mail addresses to which a commercial e-mail is sent, the addressee shall be deemed to be a separate recipient for each e-mail address to which the e-mail is sent.
(20) "Routine transmission" means the forwarding, routing, relaying, handling, or storing of an e-mail message through an automatic technical process. The term shall not include the sending, or the knowing participation in the sending, of commercial e-mail advertisements.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 46,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2005.
