# § 16-9-5. Counterfeit or false proof of insurance document

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "proof of insurance document" means any document issued by, on behalf of, or purportedly on behalf of an insurer to a motor vehicle policyholder or applicant for motor vehicle coverage, which document is designed to constitute proof or evidence of the minimum motor vehicle liability insurance required by law for the purposes of Code Section 40-6-10.
(b)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to manufacture, sell, or distribute a counterfeit or false proof of insurance document.
  (2) It shall be unlawful for any person to possess a counterfeit or false proof of insurance document that he or she knows to be a counterfeit or false proof of insurance document.
  (3) A proof of insurance document shall be deemed counterfeit or false if the proof of insurance document has been altered, modified, or originally issued in any manner which contains false information concerning the insurer, the owner, the motor vehicle, or the insurance thereon.
(c)
  (1) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be guilty of a felony and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not more than $10,000.00 or by imprisonment for not less than two nor more than ten years, or both.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall upon conviction be guilty of and be punished as for a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 182,§ 5-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
