# § 16-9-130. Damages available to consumer victim; no defense that others engage in comparable practices; service of complaint

(a) Any consumer victim who suffers injury or damages as a result of a violation of this article may bring an action individually or as a representative of a class against the person or persons engaged in such violations under the rules of civil procedure to seek equitable injunctive relief and to recover general and punitive damages sustained as a consequence thereof in any court having jurisdiction over the defendant; provided, however, that punitive damages shall be awarded only in cases of intentional violation. A claim under this article may also be asserted as a defense, setoff, cross-claim, or counterclaim or third-party claim against such person.
(b) A court shall award three times actual damages for an intentional violation.
(c) If the court finds in any action that there has been a violation of this article, the consumer victim injured by such violation shall, in addition to other relief provided for in this Code section and irrespective of the amount in controversy, be awarded reasonable attorney's fees and expenses of litigation incurred in connection with said action.
(d) It shall not be a defense in any action under this article that others were, are, or will be engaged in like practices.
(e) In any action brought under this article the Attorney General shall be served by certified or registered mail or statutory overnight delivery with a copy of the initial complaint and any amended complaint within 20 days of the filing of such complaint. The Attorney General shall be entitled to be heard in any such action, and the court where such action is filed may enter an order requiring any of the parties to serve a copy of any other pleadings in an action upon the Attorney General.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 16, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 187,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2015.
