# § 16-9-120. Definitions

(1) "Attorney General" means the Attorney General or his or her designee.
(2) "Business victim" means any individual or entity that provided money, credit, goods, services, or anything of value to someone other than the intended recipient where the intended recipient has not given permission for the actual recipient to receive it and the individual or entity that provided money, credit, goods, services, or anything of value has suffered financial loss as a direct result of the commission or attempted commission of a violation of this article.
(3) "Consumer victim" means any individual whose personal identifying information has been obtained, compromised, used, or recorded in any manner without the permission of that individual.
(4) "Health care records" means records however maintained and in whatever form regarding an individual's health, including, but not limited to, doctors' and nurses' examinations and other notes, examination notes of other medical professionals, hospital records, rehabilitation facility records, nursing home records, assisted living facility records, results of medical tests, X-rays, CT scans, MRI scans, vision examinations, pharmacy records, prescriptions, hospital charts, surgical records, mental health treatments and counseling, dental records, and physical therapy notes and evaluations.
(5) "Identifying information" shall include, but not be limited to:
  (A) Current or former names;
  (B) Social security numbers;
  (C) Driver's license numbers;
  (D) Checking account numbers;
  (E) Savings account numbers;
  (F) Credit and other financial transaction card numbers;
  (G) Debit card numbers;
  (H) Personal identification numbers;
  (I) Electronic identification numbers;
  (J) Digital or electronic signatures;
  (K) Medical identification numbers;
  (L) Birth dates;
  (M) Mother's maiden name;
  (N) Selected personal identification numbers;
  (O) Tax identification numbers;
  (P) State identification card numbers issued by state departments;
  (Q) Veteran and military medical identification numbers; and
  (R) Any other numbers or information which can be used to access a person's or entity's resources or health care records.
(6) "Resources" includes, but is not limited to:
  (A) A person's or entity's credit, credit history, credit profile, and credit rating;
  (B) United States currency, securities, real property, and personal property of any kind;
  (C) Credit, charge, and debit accounts;
  (D) Loans and lines of credit;
  (E) Documents of title and other forms of commercial paper recognized under Title 11;
  (F) Any account, including a safety deposit box, with a financial institution as defined by Code Section 7-1-4, including a national bank, federal savings and loan association, or federal credit union or a securities dealer licensed by the Secretary of State or the federal Securities and Exchange Commission;
  (G) A person's personal history, including, but not limited to, records of such person's driving records; criminal, medical, or insurance history; education; or employment; and
  (H) A person's health insurance, health savings accounts, health spending accounts, flexible spending accounts, medicare accounts, Medicaid accounts, dental insurance, vision insurance, and other forms of health insurance and health benefit plans.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 187,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 334,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
