# § 16-9-109. Disclosures by service providers pursuant to investigations

(a) Any law enforcement unit, the Attorney General, or any district attorney who is conducting an investigation of a violation of this article or an investigation of a violation of Code Section 16-12-100, 16-12-100.1, 16-12-100.2, 16-5-90, or 16-11-221, Article 8 of Chapter 5 of this title, or Article 8 of this chapter involving the use of a computer, cellular telephone, or any other electronic device used in furtherance of the act may require the disclosure by a provider of electronic communication service or remote computing service of the contents of a wire or electronic communication that is in electronic storage in an electronic communications system for 180 days or less pursuant to a search warrant issued under the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 5 of Title 17 by a court with jurisdiction over the offense under investigation. Such court may require the disclosure by a provider of electronic communication service or remote computing service of the contents of a wire or electronic communication that has been in electronic storage in an electronic communications system for more than 180 days as set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b)
  (1) Any law enforcement unit, the Attorney General, or any district attorney may require a provider of electronic communication service or remote computing service to disclose a record or other information pertaining to a subscriber to or customer of such service, exclusive of the contents of communications, only when any law enforcement unit, the Attorney General, or any district attorney:
    (A) Obtains a search warrant as provided in Article 2 of Chapter 5 of Title 17;
    (B) Obtains a court order for such disclosure under subsection (c) of this Code section; or
    (C) Has the consent of the subscriber or customer to such disclosure.
  (2) A provider of electronic communication service or remote computing service shall disclose to any law enforcement unit, the Attorney General, or any district attorney the:
    (A) Name;
    (B) Address;
    (C) Local and long distance telephone connection records, or records of session times and durations;
    (D) Length of service, including the start date, and types of service utilized;
    (E) Telephone or instrument number or other subscriber number or identity, including any temporarily assigned network address; and
    (F) Means and source of payment for such service, including any credit card or bank account number of a subscriber to or customer of such service when any law enforcement unit, the Attorney General, or any district attorney uses a subpoena authorized by Code Section 16-9-108, 35-3-4.1, or 45-15-17 or a grand jury or trial subpoena when any law enforcement unit, the Attorney General, or any district attorney complies with paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (3) Any law enforcement unit, the Attorney General, or any district attorney receiving records or information under this subsection shall not be required to provide notice to a subscriber or customer. A provider of electronic communication service or remote computing service shall not disclose to a subscriber or customer the existence of any search warrant or subpoena issued pursuant to this article nor shall a provider of electronic communication service or remote computing service disclose to a subscriber or customer that any records have been requested by or disclosed to any law enforcement unit, the Attorney General, or any district attorney pursuant to this article.
(c) A court order for disclosure issued pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section may be issued by any superior court with jurisdiction over the offense under investigation and shall only issue such court order for disclosure if any law enforcement unit, the Attorney General, or any district attorney offers specific and articulable facts showing that there are reasonable grounds to believe that the contents of an electronic communication, or the records or other information sought, are relevant and material to an ongoing criminal investigation. A court issuing an order pursuant to this Code section, on a motion made promptly by a provider of electronic communication service or remote computing service, may quash or modify such order, if compliance with such order would be unduly burdensome or oppressive on such provider.
(d)
  (1) Any records supplied pursuant to this part shall be accompanied by the affidavit of the custodian or other qualified witness, stating in substance each of the following:
    (A) The affiant is the duly authorized custodian of the records or other qualified witness and has authority to certify the records;
    (B) The copy is a true copy of all the records described in the subpoena, court order, or search warrant and the records were delivered to the attorney, the attorney's representative, or the director of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation or the director's designee;
    (C) The records were prepared by the personnel of the business in the ordinary course of business at or near the time of the act, condition, or event;
    (D) The sources of information and method and time of preparation were such as to indicate its trustworthiness;
    (E) The identity of the records; and
    (F) A description of the mode of preparation of the records.
  (2) If the business has none or only part of the records described, the custodian or other qualified witness shall so state in the affidavit.
  (3) If the original records would be admissible in evidence if the custodian or other qualified witness had been present and testified to the matters stated in the affidavit, the copy of the records shall be admissible in evidence. When more than one person has knowledge of the facts, more than one affidavit shall be attached to the records produced.
  (4) No later than 30 days prior to trial, a party intending to offer such evidence produced in compliance with this subsection shall provide written notice of such intentions to the opposing party or parties. A motion opposing the admission of such evidence shall be filed within ten days of the filing of such notice, and the court shall hold a hearing and rule on such motion no later than ten days prior to trial. Failure of a party to file such motion opposing admission prior to trial shall constitute a waiver of objection to such records and affidavit. However, the court, for good cause shown, may grant relief from such waiver.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 562,§ 16, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 208,§ 3-3, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 132,§ 1-3, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 202,§ 1, eff. 5/23/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 16, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 46,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2005.
