# § 36-5-24. Definitions; compensation of members of county governing authorities

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "County governing authority" means a governing authority as defined in paragraph (7) of Code Section 1-3-3 and an elected county chief executive officer.
  (2) "Expenses in the nature of compensation" means any expense allowance or any form of payment or reimbursement of expenses other than reimbursement for expenses actually and necessarily incurred by members of a county governing authority.
(b) Unless otherwise provided by local law, the governing authority of each county is authorized to fix the salary, compensation, expenses, and expenses in the nature of compensation of the members of the governing authority subject to the following conditions:
  (1) Any increase in salary, compensation, expenses, or expenses in the nature of compensation for members of a county governing authority shall not be effective until the first day of January of the year following the next general election held after the date on which the action to increase the compensation was taken;
  (2) A county governing authority shall take no action to increase salary, compensation, expenses, or expenses in the nature of compensation until notice of intent to take such action and the fiscal impact of such action has been published in a newspaper designated as the legal organ of the county at least once a week for three consecutive weeks immediately preceding the meeting at which the action is taken; and
  (3) Such action shall not be taken during the period of time beginning with the date that candidates for election as members of the county governing authority may first qualify as such candidates and ending with the first day of January following the date of qualification.
(c) Salary, compensation, expenses, and expenses in the nature of compensation paid to members of a county governing authority in accordance with applicable local or general salary laws in effect on January 1, 2001, and as subsequently amended, shall continue in full force and effect as compensation for such county officials unless such compensation is increased pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section; and this Code section shall not affect the power of the General Assembly at any time by local or general law to increase or decrease any or all of such compensation or by local law to withdraw the authority otherwise granted to a county governing authority under this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 36, eff. 4/24/2013.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 245, § 1, eff. 4/27/2001.
