# § 33-5-21. Authorization of procurement of surplus line insurance; conditions; procuring or placing nonadmitted insurance for exempt commercial purchaser

(a) Surplus line insurance may be procured from unauthorized insurers subject to the following conditions:
  (1) The insurance must be procured through a licensed surplus line broker;
  (2) The insurance may only be procured from insurers which meet the financial condition requirements of Code Section 33-5-25;
  (3) The insured or the insured's agent has made an effort to procure the desired insurance coverage or benefits from authorized insurers, but such effort has been unsuccessful in obtaining insurance coverage or benefits which are satisfactory to the insured except as provided under subsection (b) of this Code section; and
  (4) The insurance shall not be procured under this chapter for personal private passenger motor vehicle coverage or residential dwelling property coverage unless such insurance cannot be obtained from an authorized insurer.
(b) The broker shall not be required to make a due diligence search to determine whether the full amount or type of insurance can be obtained from authorized insurers when the surplus line broker is seeking to procure or place nonadmitted insurance for an exempt commercial purchaser, provided:
  (1) The broker procuring or placing the surplus line insurance has disclosed to the exempt commercial purchaser that such insurance may be available from the admitted market that may provide greater protection with more regulatory oversight; and
  (2) The exempt commercial purchaser has subsequently requested in writing for the broker to procure or place such insurance from a nonadmitted insurer.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-26, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 112,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
