# § 33-5-20.2. Criteria for domestic surplus lines insurer; construction with federal provisions; eligibility to write insurance; taxes; protection; financial and solvency requirements; exemption from statutory requirements

(a) A nonadmitted insurer that is domiciled in this state shall be deemed a domestic surplus lines insurer if all of the following criteria are satisfied:
  (1) The insurer shall possess a policyholder surplus of at least $15 million;
  (2) The insurer is an eligible surplus lines insurer in at least one jurisdiction other than this state;
  (3) The board of directors of the insurer has passed a resolution seeking to be a domestic surplus lines insurer in this state; and
  (4) The Commissioner has issued a certificate of authority or otherwise provided written approval for the insurer to be a domestic surplus lines insurer.
(b) For the purposes of the federal Nonadmitted and Reinsurance Reform Act of 2010, 15 U.S.C Section 8201, et seq, a domestic surplus lines insurer shall be considered a nonadmitted insurer with respect to risks insured in this state.
(c) A domestic surplus lines insurer shall be deemed an eligible surplus lines insurer and authorized to write any kind of insurance that a nonadmitted insurer not domiciled in this state is eligible to write.
(d) Notwithstanding any other statute, the policies issued in this state by a domestic surplus lines insurer shall be subject to taxes assessed upon surplus lines policies issued by nonadmitted insurers, including the surplus lines premium tax, but will not be subject to other taxes levied upon admitted insurers, whether domestic or foreign.
(e) Policies issued by a domestic surplus lines insurer are not subject to the protections or other provisions of the Georgia Insurers Insolvency Pool created by Chapter 36 of this title or the Georgia Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Association created by Chapter 38 of this title.
(f) All financial and solvency requirements imposed by this state's laws upon domestic admitted insurers shall apply to domestic surplus lines insurers unless domestic surplus lines insurers are otherwise specifically exempted.
(g) Policies issued by a domestic surplus lines insurer shall be exempt from all statutory requirements relating to insurance rating plans, policy forms, premiums charged to insureds, and other statutory requirements in the same manner and to the same extent as a nonadmitted insurer domiciled in another state.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 448,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2018.
