# § 33-5-25. Broker to ascertain financial condition of unauthorized insurer prior to placement of insurance therewith; placement of insurance with foreign or alien insurers

(a) The broker shall ascertain the financial condition of the unauthorized insurer before placing insurance with the unauthorized insurer and shall not place surplus line insurance with any insurer who does not meet, according to current available reliable financial information, the requirements provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b)
  (1) The broker shall so insure only:
    (A) With an insurance company domiciled in a United States jurisdiction that is authorized to write the type of insurance in its domiciliary jurisdiction and has a capital and surplus or its equivalent under the laws of its domiciliary jurisdiction which equals the greater of:
      (i) The minimum capital and surplus requirements of this title; or
      (ii) Fifteen million dollars; The requirements of this subparagraph may be satisfied by an insurer that possesses less than the minimum capital and surplus upon an affirmative finding of acceptability by the Commissioner. The finding shall be based upon such factors as quality of management, capital and surplus of any parent company, company underwriting profit and investment income trends, market availability, and company record and reputation within the industry. In no event shall the Commissioner make an affirmative finding of acceptability when the unauthorized insurer's capital and surplus is less than $4.5 million;
    (B) With any group of foreign individual underwriters licensed and domiciled in a state or United States territory if such group maintains a trust or security fund of at least $10 million as security to the full amount thereof for all policyholders and creditors in the United States of each member of the group. If the group includes incorporated and unincorporated underwriters, the incorporated members shall not be engaged in any business other than underwriting as a member of the group and shall be subject to the level of solvency regulation and control by the group's domiciliary regulatory agency as are the unincorporated members; or
    (C) With an alien insurer or group of underwriters domiciled outside of the United States, including, but not limited to, any Lloyd's group, that is listed in the Quarterly Listing of Alien Insurers maintained by the International Insurers Department of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
  (2) An insurer or group of foreign individual underwriters described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall annually furnish to the broker a copy of its current annual financial statement and, in the case of a group of foreign individual underwriters, evidence of compliance with required trust or security fund deposits.
(c) For any violation of this Code section, a broker's license may be suspended or revoked as provided in Code Section 33-5-23.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 33, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 112,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 407, § 1, eff. 3/11/2002.
