# § 33-5-33. Filing of report by persons procuring insurance with unauthorized insurers; levy, collection, and disposition of tax by persons procuring such insurance

(a) Every insured who in this state procures or causes to be procured or continues or renews insurance with an unauthorized insurer upon a subject of insurance resident, located, or to be performed both within and outside this state, other than insurance procured through a surplus line broker pursuant to this article or exempted from this article under Code Section 33-5-35, shall within 30 days after the date such insurance was so procured, continued, or renewed file a report of the same with the Commissioner in writing and upon forms designated by the Commissioner and furnished to such an insured upon request. The report shall state the name and address of the insured or insureds, name and address of the insurer, the subject of the insurance, a general description of the coverage, the amount of premium currently paid thereon, and such additional information as reasonably requested by the Commissioner.
(b) If this state participates in a cooperative agreement, compact, or reciprocal agreement with other states pursuant to Code Sections 33-5-40 through 33-5-44, then for the general support of the government of this state, there is levied and there shall be collected from every such insured in this state for the privilege of so insuring his property or interests, a tax covering risks or exposures located or to be performed both in and out of this state, after deduction of return premiums, if any. The sum payable shall be computed based upon an amount equal to 4 percent of that portion of the gross premiums allocated to this state plus an amount equal to the portion of premiums allocated to other states or territories on the basis of the tax rates and fees applicable to properties, risks, or exposures located or to be performed outside this state. Such tax shall be paid to the Commissioner coincidentally with the filing of the report provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(b.1) If this state does not participate in a cooperative agreement, compact, or reciprocal agreement with other states pursuant to Code Sections 33-5-40 through 33-5-44, then for the general support of the government of this state, there is levied and there shall be collected from every such insured in this state for the privilege of so insuring his or her property or interests both in and out of this state, a tax at the rate of 4 percent of the gross premium paid for any such insurance, after deduction of return premiums, if any. Such tax shall be paid to the Commissioner coincidently with the filing of the report provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) The tax imposed under subsection (b) of this Code section, if delinquent, shall bear interest at the rate of 6 percent per annum, compounded annually.
(d) Such tax shall be collectable by civil action brought by the Commissioner or by distraint and, if with respect to insurance of real property, the tax shall constitute a lien upon such real property while owned by the insured, enforceable in the same manner and through the same procedures as govern the collection of other taxes upon such real property under the laws of this state.
(e) This Code section shall not apply to life or accident and sickness insurance.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-30, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 746,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 112,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2011.
