# § 26-4-49. Drug researcher permits; application for registration; fees; suspension or revocation; penalty for violations

(a) Every person, firm, corporation, agency, department, or other entity located within this state which handles, possesses, or utilizes controlled substances or dangerous drugs, as defined in Chapter 13 of Title 16, for the purposes of conducting research, analysis, animal training, or drug education, as such purposes may be further defined by the board, and is not otherwise registered as a pharmacist, pharmacy, drug wholesaler, distributor, supplier, or practitioner shall biennially register with the State Board of Pharmacy for a drug researcher permit which shall entitle the holder thereof to purchase, receive, possess, or dispose of such controlled substances and dangerous drugs for such purposes. In applying for the permit:
  (1) The application for registration shall be made on a form to be prescribed and furnished by said board and shall show at a minimum the name of the person responsible for filing the application, the name of the applying firm, corporation, agency, department, or other entity, if applicable, the address where the controlled substances or dangerous drugs will be kept secured and can be inspected by the board, together with such other information as may be required by the board;
  (2) The person filing the application for the permit shall be the responsible person for the safe and proper storage and accountability, as defined under Chapter 13 of Title 16, for any and all controlled substances and dangerous drugs. Such person shall be responsible for maintaining exact and accurate records regarding the purchase, receipt, utilization, and disposal of all controlled substances and dangerous drugs utilized for purposes granted by this permit. All records must be maintained for a minimum of two years and be readily available for inspection by agents of the board; and
  (3) Before approval by the board for any permit issued under this Code section, the application for registration must successfully undergo a thorough investigation by agents of the board to ensure the applicant complies with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations pursuant to handling controlled substances and dangerous drugs as defined under Chapter 13 of Title 16.
(b) The board may require that the application for registration as a drug researcher be accompanied by a fee in an amount established under rules promulgated by the board, and the board may establish conditions for exemptions from such fees. Such registration shall not be transferable and shall expire on the expiration date established by the executive director and may be renewed pursuant to rules and regulations promulgated by the board. If not renewed, the registration shall lapse and become null and void.
(c) The board shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations governing the holder of a drug researcher permit as defined under this Code section.
(d) A drug researcher permit may be suspended or revoked or the registrant may be reprimanded, fined, or placed on probation by the board if the registrant fails to comply with all applicable local, state, or federal laws, rules, and regulations.
(e) A holder of a drug researcher permit who is not also licensed as a pharmacist practicing in a duly licensed pharmacy shall not engage in the sale, distribution, or dispensing of controlled substances or dangerous drugs.
(f) Any person, firm, or corporation which violates any provision of this Code section shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than five years or by a fine not to exceed $10,000.00 or both.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 83,§ 1-15, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 9, § 26, eff. 5/14/2003.
