# § 26-4-116. Emergency service providers; contracts with issuing pharmacy; record keeping; inspections

(a) Dangerous drugs and controlled substances as defined under Chapter 13 of Title 16 shall only be issued to the medical director of an emergency service provider from pharmacies licensed in this state only in accordance with the provisions of this Code section.
(b) The medical director of an emergency service provider and an issuing pharmacy must have a signed contract or agreement designating such pharmacy as a provider of drugs and consultant services and a copy must be filed with the state board and the Department of Public Health prior to any drugs being issued.
(c) A manual of policies and procedures for the handling, storage, labeling, and record keeping of all drugs must be written, approved, and signed by the medical director of an emergency service provider and the pharmacist in charge of an issuing pharmacy. The manual shall contain procedures for the safe and effective use of drugs from acquisition to final disposition.
(d) A written record of all drugs issued to the medical director of an emergency service provider must be maintained by the issuing pharmacy and emergency service provider. Agents of the Georgia Drugs and Narcotics Agency may review all records to determine the accuracy and proper accountability for the use of all drugs.
(e) To provide for the proper control and accountability of drugs, a written record of all drugs used by such emergency service provider shall be provided to the issuing pharmacy within 72 hours of use.
(f) A pharmacist from a contracting issuing pharmacy shall physically inspect the drugs of such emergency service provider to determine compliance with appropriate policies and procedures for the handling, storage, labeling, and record keeping of all drugs not less than annually and maintain records of such inspection for a period of not less than two years. Such an inspection shall, at a minimum, verify that:
  (1) Drugs are properly stored, especially those requiring special storage conditions;
  (2) Drugs are properly accounted for by personnel of such emergency service provider;
  (3) Proper security measures to prohibit unauthorized access to the drugs are implemented; and
  (4) All policies and procedures are followed and enforced.
(g) All outdated, expired, unused, or unusable drugs shall be returned to the issuing pharmacy for proper disposition in a manner acceptable to the board.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 226,§ 2, eff. 5/6/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
