# § 26-4-46. Pharmacy intern licenses; eligibility; requirements

(a) To obtain a license as a pharmacy intern, an applicant shall:
  (1) Have submitted an application in the form prescribed by the board of pharmacy;
  (2) Have attained the age of majority;
  (3) Be of good moral character; and
  (4) Have paid the fees specified by the board for the issuance of the license.
(b) The following individuals shall be eligible to be licensed as a pharmacy intern:
  (1) A student who is currently enrolled in an approved school or college of pharmacy;
  (2) An individual who is a graduate of an approved school or college of pharmacy who is currently licensed by the board for the purpose of obtaining practical experience as a requirement for licensure as a pharmacist; or
  (3) An individual who does not meet the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection and is a graduate of a pharmacy school or college located in another country but who has completed all requirements of the Foreign Pharmacy Equivalency Certification Program administered by the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy. This shall include without being limited to successful completion of all required examinations, the issuance of the equivalency certificate, and an individual evaluation by the board of the applicant's proficiency in the English language.
(c) The board shall approve all internship programs for the purpose of providing the practical experience necessary for licensure as a pharmacist. A pharmacy intern is authorized to engage in the practice of pharmacy under the supervision of a pharmacist. The board shall adopt rules regarding the licensure of interns and the standards for internship programs.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 4, eff. 5/20/2010.
