# § 26-4-42. License transfers for pharmacists licensed in another jurisdiction

(a) In order for a pharmacist currently licensed in another jurisdiction to obtain a license as a pharmacist by license transfer in this state, an applicant shall:
  (1) Complete and file a form applying for licensure with the board, which form shall include the applicant's name, address, and other such information as prescribed by the board, and, after an investigation by agents acting on behalf of the board, if so requested by the board, produce evidence satisfactory to the board which shows the applicant has the age, moral character, background, education, and experience demanded of applicants for registration by examination under this chapter and by the rules and regulations promulgated under this chapter;
  (2) Have attained the age of majority;
  (3) Be of good moral character;
  (4) Have possessed at the time of initial licensure as a pharmacist all qualifications necessary to have been eligible for licensure at that time in this state;
  (5) Have presented to the board proof of initial licensure by examination and proof that such license is in good standing;
  (6) Have presented to the board proof that any other license granted to the applicant by any other state has not been suspended, revoked, or otherwise restricted for any reason except nonrenewal or for the failure to obtain the required continuing education credits in any state where the applicant is currently licensed but not engaged in the practice of pharmacy;
  (7) Have successfully passed examinations as determined by the board, one of which shall include an examination on Georgia pharmacy law and board regulations; and
  (8) Have paid the fees specified by the board.
(b) No applicant shall be eligible for license transfer unless the state in which the applicant was licensed as a pharmacist also grants licensure transfer to pharmacists duly licensed by examination in this state under like circumstances and conditions.
(c) To obtain a license to engage in the practice of pharmacy in this state, a pharmacist who is a graduate of a pharmacy school or college located in another country must complete all requirements of the Foreign Pharmacy Equivalency Certification Program administered by the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy. This shall include without being limited to successful completion of all required examinations, the issuance of the equivalency certificate, and an individual evaluation by the board of the applicant's proficiency in the English language. Additionally, a foreign pharmacy graduate applicant shall:
  (1) Have submitted an application in the form prescribed by the board;
  (2) Have attained the age of majority;
  (3) Be of good moral character;
  (4) Have possessed at the time of initial licensure as a pharmacist all qualifications necessary to have been eligible for licensure at that time in this state;
  (5) Have graduated and been granted a pharmacy degree from a college or school of pharmacy recognized by the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy Foreign Pharmacy Graduate Examination Committee;
  (6) Have successfully passed an examination approved by the board; and
  (7) Have paid the fees specified by the board.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 31,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 3, eff. 5/20/2010.
