# § 26-4-26. Meetings; notice; quorum; open meetings

(a) To transact its business, the board shall hold regular meetings at least once each month unless, in the discretion of the president, it is deemed unnecessary for a particular month. The board shall meet at such additional times as it may determine. Such additional meetings may be called by the president of the board or by at least two-thirds of the members of the board.
(b) Notice of all meetings of the board shall be given in the manner and pursuant to requirements prescribed by Chapter 14 of Title 50 relating to open meetings.
(c) A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the conduct of a board meeting and, except where a greater number is required by this chapter or by any rule of the board, all actions of the board shall be by a majority of a quorum.
(d) Meetings and hearings of the board shall be held at the site of the office of the board or at such other site as may be specified by the president of the board.
(e) All board meetings and hearings shall be open to the public. The board may, in its discretion and according to law, conduct any portion of its meeting in executive session closed to the public.
(f) Proceedings before the board wherein a licensee's or permit holder's right to practice pursuant to this chapter in this state is terminated, suspended, or limited or wherein a public reprimand is administered shall require prior notice to the licensee and an opportunity for hearing; and such proceedings shall be considered contested cases within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Neither refusal of a license or permit nor a private reprimand nor a letter of concern shall be considered a contested case within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 50; provided, however, that the applicant shall be allowed to appear before the board, if the applicant so requests, prior to the board making a final decision regarding the issuance of the license or permit. The power to subpoena as set forth in Chapter 13 of Title 50 shall include the power to subpoena any relevant book, writing, paper, or document. If any licensee or permit holder fails to appear at any hearing after reasonable notice, the board may proceed to hear the evidence against such licensee or permit holder and take action as if such licensee or permit holder had been present.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 83,§ 1-8, eff. 7/1/2013.
