# § 26-4-45. Continuing professional pharmaceutical education requirements

The board shall establish a program of continuing professional pharmaceutical education for the renewal of pharmacist licenses. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, no pharmacist license shall be renewed by the board or the executive director until the pharmacist submits to the board satisfactory proof of his or her participation, during the biennium preceding his or her application for renewal, in a minimum of 30 hours of approved programs of continuing professional pharmacy education as defined in this Code section. Continuing professional pharmacy education shall consist of educational programs providing training pertinent to the practice of pharmacy and approved by the board under this Code section. The board shall approve educational programs for persons practicing pharmacy in this state on a reasonable nondiscriminatory fee basis and may contract with institutions of higher learning, professional organizations, or qualified individuals for the providing of approved programs. In addition to such programs, the board shall allow the continuing professional pharmacy education requirement to be fulfilled by the completion of approved correspondence courses which provide the required hours of approved programs of continuing professional pharmaceutical education or to be fulfilled by a combination of approved correspondence courses and other approved educational programs. The board may, consistent with the requirements of this Code section, promulgate rules and regulations to implement and administer this Code section, including the establishment of a committee to prescribe standards, approve and contract for educational programs, and set the required minimum number of hours per year.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 83,§ 1-14, eff. 7/1/2013.
