# § 26-4-28.1. Power, duties, and authority of the executive director

(a) The executive director:
  (1) Shall be a full-time employee of the board and shall serve as the chief executive officer and secretary of the board. Any person, in order to qualify for appointment as the executive director, shall be of good moral character and shall possess such qualifications as the board may require. The executive director shall have, with respect to the board, the same powers, duties, and functions granted to the division director with respect to professional licensing boards under Chapter 1 of Title 43 but shall not be subject to any approval or other powers exercised by the Secretary of State;
  (2) With the approval of the board, may employ or contract with and fix the compensation of administrative assistants, secretaries, and any other such staff as deemed necessary to assist in the duties of the board. The director of the Georgia Drugs and Narcotics Agency shall serve as the assistant executive director, who shall act on behalf of the executive director in his or her absence. The executive director and other board staff shall be allowed reimbursement for travel and other expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties in the same manner as other state officers and employees, and shall receive payment of the same in the manner provided for the board;
  (3) Shall take an oath to discharge faithfully the duties of the office; and
  (4) Shall be charged with the duties and powers as prescribed by the board.
(b) The executive director shall prepare and maintain a public roster containing the names and business addresses of all current licensees, registration holders, and permit holders for each of the various registrants regulated by the board. A copy of the roster shall be available to any person upon request at a fee prescribed by the board sufficient to cover the cost of printing and distribution. The following shall be treated as confidential, not subject to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, relating to open records, and shall not be disclosed without the approval of the board:
  (1) Applications and other personal information submitted by applicants, except to the applicant, the staff, and the board;
  (2) Information, favorable or unfavorable, submitted by a reference source concerning an applicant, except to the staff and the board;
  (3) Examination questions and other examination materials, except to the staff and the board; and
  (4) The deliberations of the board with respect to an application, an examination, a complaint, an investigation, or a disciplinary proceeding, except as may be contained in official board minutes; provided, however, that such deliberations may be released to a law enforcement agency or prosecuting attorney of this state or to another state or federal enforcement agency or lawful licensing authority. Releasing the documents pursuant to this paragraph shall not subject any otherwise privileged documents to the provisions of Code Section 50-18-70.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 83,§ 1-10, eff. 7/1/2013.
