# § 26-4-22. Number and terms of members; appointment; vacancies

(a) The board shall consist of seven members possessing the qualification specified in subsection (a) of Code Section 26-4-21 and one additional member possessing the qualifications specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 26-4-21 who shall be appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate for a term of five years or until their successors are appointed and qualified. Pharmacist members shall represent a diversity of practice settings and geographic dispersion of practitioners across this state.
(b) At the annual meeting of the Georgia Pharmacy Association, there may be nominated by such licensed pharmacists as may be present three practicing registered pharmacists who shall meet the qualifications imposed by subsection (a) of Code Section 26-4-21 to fill the next vacancy occurring on the board, except a vacancy in the consumer member position on said board, by reason of expiration of term. The secretary of said association may regularly submit to the Governor the names of the three pharmacists so nominated and the Governor may make the appointment to fill such vacancy from the names so submitted. Should any vacancy occur upon the board, other than in the consumer member position on the board and other than by reason of expiration of term, such vacancy may be filled by appointment by the Governor for the unexpired term from a group of three practicing registered pharmacists nominated as provided in this subsection at any regular or special meeting of the Georgia Pharmacy Association.
(c) The consumer member of the board shall also be appointed by the Governor. Such member shall vote only on matters relating to administration and policy which do not directly relate to practical and scientific examination of pharmacists for licensing in Georgia. Vacancies occurring in the membership of the board occupied by a consumer shall be filled by the Governor for the unexpired term of office.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 83,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2013.
