# § 26-4-83. Patient record systems

(a) The board of pharmacy may refuse to renew or may suspend, revoke, or restrict the licenses of or fine any person or pharmacy pursuant to the procedures set forth in this Code section and rules and regulations established by the board upon the failure to maintain an appropriate patient record system.
(b) A patient record system shall be maintained by all pharmacies for patients for whom prescription drug orders are dispensed. The patient record system shall provide for the immediate retrieval of information necessary by the pharmacist to identify previously dispensed drugs at the time a prescription drug order is presented for dispensing. The pharmacist or the pharmacist's designee shall make a reasonable effort to obtain, record, and maintain the following information:
  (1) The full name of the patient for whom the drug is intended;
  (2) The address and telephone number of the patient;
  (3) The date of birth of the patient; and
  (4) The gender of the patient.
(c) The pharmacist shall make a reasonable effort to obtain from the patient or the patient's agent and shall record any known allergies, drug reactions, idiosyncrasies, and chronic conditions or disease states of the patient and identify any other drugs, including over-the-counter drugs or devices, currently being used by the patient which may relate to prospective drug use review unless the patient or the patient's agent refuses to provide such information. The pharmacist shall make a reasonable effort to obtain, record, and maintain the following information:
  (1) A list of all prescription drug orders obtained by the patient at the pharmacy where the prescription drug order is being filled for at least the preceding two years, showing the prescription number, the name and strength of the drug, the quantity and date dispensed, and the name of the prescribing practitioner; and
  (2) Comments from the pharmacist relevant to the individual's drug therapy, including any other information peculiar to the specific patient or drug.
(d) A patient record shall be maintained for a period of not less than two years from the date of the last entry in the profile record. This record may be a hard copy of a computerized form.
