# § 28-6-1. Creation of Senate, House, and Governor's committees; membership

(a) There is established a standing committee of the Senate of this state to be known officially as the Senate Committee on Interstate Cooperation and to consist of five Senators. The members and the chairman of this committee shall be designated in the same manner as is customary in the case of the members and chairmen of other standing committees of the Senate. In addition to the regular members, the President of the Senate shall be ex officio an honorary nonvoting member of this committee.
(b) There is established a standing committee of the House of Representatives of this state to be known officially as the House Committee on Interstate Cooperation and to consist of five members of the House of Representatives. The members and the chairman of this committee shall be designated in the same manner as is customary in the case of the members and chairmen of other standing committees of the House of Representatives. In addition to the regular members, the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall be ex officio an honorary nonvoting member of this committee.
(c) There is established a committee of administrative officials and employees of this state to be known officially as the Governor's Committee on Interstate Cooperation and to consist of five members. Its members shall be: the Commissioner of Insurance, ex officio; the Secretary of State, ex officio; and three other administrative officials or employees to be designated by the Governor none of whom shall be the Attorney General. The Governor shall appoint one of the five members of this committee as its chairman. In addition to the regular members, the Governor shall be ex officio an honorary nonvoting member of this committee.
