# § 25-3-25. Suspension or revocation of certificate of compliance; hearing by aggrieved departments; enforcement of suspensions or revocations

(a) The certificate of compliance issued by the Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Council or the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council shall be subject to suspension or revocation by the applicable council at any time it receives satisfactory evidence that the fire department is not maintaining sufficient personnel, equipment, or insurance required by Code Section 25-3-23, or the rules and regulations of the Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Council, for fire departments employing full-time firefighters or part-time firefighters, or the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council, for fire departments solely utilizing volunteer firefighters, pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 25-3-23.
(b) The chief administrative officer of any fire department aggrieved by a decision of the Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Council, for fire departments employing full-time firefighters or part-time firefighters, or the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council, for fire departments solely utilizing volunteer firefighters, under subsection (a) of this Code section may, within 30 days of the date of such decision, request a hearing on the matter before the applicable council. Following a hearing before the applicable council, the chief administrative officer of the fire department affected shall be served with a written decision of the applicable council announcing whether the certificate of compliance shall remain revoked or suspended or whether it shall be reinstated.
(c) The Georgia Firefighters Standards and Training Council, for fire departments employing full-time firefighters or part-time firefighters, or the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council, for fire departments solely utilizing volunteer firefighters, shall not suspend or revoke any certificate of compliance for failure to meet firefighter training requirements when such failure was due to unavailability of required training from or through the Georgia Fire Academy.
(d) The Georgia Firefighters Standards and Training Council, for fire departments employing full-time firefighters or part-time firefighters, or the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council, for fire departments solely utilizing volunteer firefighters, may refer suspensions or revocations to the Attorney General for enforcement. Upon referral from a council, the Attorney General may bring a civil action to enjoin any organization which is not in compliance with the applicable requirements of this chapter from performing any or all firefighting functions until such requirements are met by such organization.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 542,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 388,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2004
