# § 25-3-22. Notification and documentation that organization meets requirements; issuance of certificate of compliance

(a) In order for a fire department employing full-time firefighters or part-time firefighters to be legally organized to operate in the State of Georgia, the chief administrative officer of the fire department shall notify and submit all required documentation to the executive director that demonstrates that the organization meets the minimum requirements specified in Code Section 25-3-23 and the rules and regulations of the Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Council to function as a fire department. If the executive director is satisfied that the fire department meets the minimum requirements contained in Code Section 25-3-23 and the rules and regulations of the Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Council, he or she shall recommend to the Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Council that a certificate of compliance be issued by the council to the fire department. If the council issues such certificate of compliance, the fire department shall be authorized to exercise the general and emergency powers set forth in Code Sections 25-3-1 and 25-3-2.
(b) In order for a volunteer fire department to be legally organized to operate in the State of Georgia, the chief administrative officer of the fire department shall notify and submit all required documentation to the executive director that demonstrates that the organization meets the minimum requirements specified in Code Section 25-3-23 and the rules and regulations of the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council to function as a volunteer fire department. If the executive director is satisfied that the volunteer fire department meets the minimum requirements contained in Code Section 25-3-23 and the rules and regulations of the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council, he or she shall recommend to the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council that a certificate of compliance be issued by such council to the volunteer fire department. If the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council issues such certificate of compliance, the fire department shall be authorized to exercise the general and emergency powers set forth in Code Sections 25-3-1 and 25-3-2.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 542,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 330,§ 1, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 388,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2004
