# § 43-40-12. Fees; inactive status; licensure of broker as salesperson; penalty fees; extension of renewal period

(a) To pay the expense of the maintenance and operation of the office of the commission and the enforcement of this chapter, the commission shall establish reasonable fees in accordance with Code Sections 43-40-13 and 43-40-3 and in accordance with its rule-making authority. No fee or portion of a fee required under this chapter which is paid to the commission shall be refunded. Each licensee shall be responsible for filing his or her own fees.
(b) When the commission administers an examination, at the time an application for examination is submitted, the commission shall collect from the applicant a fee for the examination and an investigation fee if necessary. If an applicant fails to pass an examination, upon filing a new application and paying an additional fee, the applicant may take another examination as soon as scheduling permits.
(c) Prior to the issuance of an original license, each applicant who has passed the examination required by Code Section 43-40-8, each firm which is an applicant for a broker's license, and each corporation, limited liability company, or partnership which is an applicant for an associate broker license or a salesperson license shall pay an activation fee in advance.
(d) All licenses shall be renewed periodically as determined by the commission in its rules and regulations, and the commission shall charge a fee for any such license renewed. When renewing a license, a broker must complete a form prescribed by the commission regarding the status of such broker's trust account or accounts and any trust account or accounts that the broker allows affiliated licensees to maintain. The time for renewal of a license and the number of years for which it may be renewed shall be in the discretion of the commission. All fees shall be deposited into the state treasury for the expenses of the commission. This Code section shall not obviate any other fees or conditions required to maintain such license in accordance with this chapter. A license not renewed in accordance with this subsection shall be viewed as lapsed.
(e) Applications and fees must be filed personally in the commission's offices during regular business hours or may be mailed to the commission's offices in a letter postmarked by the United States Postal Service. The commission, through its rules and regulations, may establish standards for the filing of applications and fees by electronic means or by courier services.
(f) Any licensee whose license lapses for failure to pay a renewal fee may reinstate that license within two years of the date of its lapsing by paying the total amount of all renewal fees and late charges which would have been due during the period when the license was lapsed plus a reinstatement fee. If any licensee who has passed an examination administered by or approved by the commission allows a license to lapse for a period longer than two years and less than five years due solely to a failure to pay a renewal fee, the licensee may reinstate that license by paying the total amount of all renewal fees and late charges which would have been due during the period when the license was lapsed plus a reinstatement fee and by successfully completing any educational course or courses which the commission may require. Any licensee whose license has lapsed for longer than five years for failure to pay a renewal fee and who seeks to reinstate that license shall meet the education and examination requirements for that license as set forth in Code Section 43-40-8. Any nonresident licensee whose license lapses for failure to pay a renewal fee may reactivate that license by paying the fee required of an original applicant if such nonresident licensee has maintained an active license in his or her state of residence during the period that his or her license lapsed and has met its continuing education requirements. Any licensee whose license has lapsed for longer than one year and who is not subject to the continuing education requirements of subsection (e) of Code Section 43-40-8 and who reinstates such license under the terms of this subsection shall thereafter be subject to the continuing education requirements of subsection (e) of Code Section 43-40-8.
(g) Any real estate broker who does not wish to be actively engaged in the brokerage business or any licensee who is temporarily not actively engaged on behalf of a broker may continue a license by making a written request within 30 days of ceasing work that the license be placed on inactive status. Any licensee whose license has been placed on an inactive status shall not engage in the real estate brokerage business except in connection with property owned by the licensee. To reinstate a license held on inactive status, a licensee other than a broker shall secure the signature of the broker for whom the licensee wishes to act; and a broker shall make application to the commission prior to resuming brokerage activity. Any individual licensee who seeks to activate a license which has been on inactive status shall first meet the continuing education requirement of subsection (e) of Code Section 43-40-8 which would have been required had such person been on active status unless such person maintained an active license in another state that has continuing education requirements while such licensee's license was on inactive status in Georgia.
(h) Any licensee who places a license on inactive status shall be required to pay the license renewal fee provided for in subsection (d) of this Code section. Whenever any licensee on inactive status fails to pay the required renewal fees, the licensee's license shall be lapsed. If a licensee on inactive status changes address, the licensee shall notify the commission of the new address, in writing, within 30 days.
(i) Any check which is presented to the commission as payment for any fee which the commission is permitted to charge under this chapter and which is returned unpaid may be cause for denial of license or for imposing any sanction permitted under Code Section 43-40-25.
(j) Any licensed broker or associate broker who wishes to be licensed as a salesperson may do so by surrendering that broker's license and applying for a license as a salesperson. No examination shall be required of a licensed broker or associate broker who surrenders that license and applies for a salesperson's license. In the event that such person later wishes to be relicensed as a broker, no additional broker's examination shall be required. When a licensee changes status as contemplated in this subsection, the licensee shall be required to pay the same fee as an original applicant.
(k) Should a license be suspended or revoked, as provided for by this chapter, said suspension or revocation shall prevent the licensee from making either application as set out in subsection (j) of this Code section.
(l) Any school approved to offer required education courses under this chapter and instructors approved to teach those courses shall pay the same original application fee and renewal fee established by the commission for broker applicants and licensees. If such approvals lapse, the school or instructor may reinstate the approval by paying the total amount of all renewal fees and late charges which would have been due during the period the approval was lapsed plus a reactivation fee and by successfully completing any educational course or courses which the commission may require.
(m) A reasonable fee, not to exceed the renewal fee charged broker licensees, may be imposed by the commission on a licensee who:
  (1) Fails to notify the commission in writing within 30 days of a change of address, of the opening or closing of a designated trust account, of transferring to a new company, or of leaving a firm to go on inactive status;
  (2) Fails to affiliate with a new company or to apply to go on inactive status within 30 days of the commission's receipt of notice that the broker holding the licensee's license no longer wishes to do so and has mailed a letter to the licensee's last known address indicating that the broker is returning the license to the commission;
  (3) Fails to respond within 30 days to a written inquiry from the commission requesting further information on any application the licensee has filed with the commission; and
  (4) Submits to the commission a check that is returned unpaid.
(n) Whenever a licensee who resides in a county designated as a disaster area by state or federal authorities suffers uninsured major damage or loss to such licensee's residence or place of business, the commission may extend such licensee's renewal period for up to two years without further payment of any fee by the licensee upon satisfactory proof of the licensee's uninsured major damage or loss. The commission is further authorized to make appropriate adjustments in deadline dates mandated by this chapter for applications filed by applicants and licensees located in counties designated as disaster areas by state or federal authorities.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 249,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2007.
