# § 43-40-4. Office of commissioner; qualifications; restrictions; staff; oath; duties and powers; reimbursement

(a) There is established within the commission the office of real estate commissioner.
(b) The commissioner shall be a full-time employee of the commission and shall serve as the chief executive officer of the commission. The commission shall in its discretion appoint the commissioner and fix his or her annual salary. Any person, in order to qualify for appointment to the office of commissioner, shall be a person of good moral character and shall possess such qualifications as the commission may require. The commissioner shall hold no interest in any real estate business or related business while serving as commissioner. The commissioner, with the approval of the commission, may employ and fix the compensation of a secretary, investigators, and other staff to assist the commissioner in his or her duties. Such employees shall not be placed in the classified service as defined by Code Section 45-20-2, provided that nothing in this chapter shall be construed to affect any employee in the classified service as of July 1, 1981.
(c) The commissioner shall take an oath to discharge faithfully the duties of his or her office.
(d) The commissioner shall be charged with the duties and powers as delegated by the commission.
(e) The commissioner shall be allowed reimbursement for travel and other expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of his or her duties, the same as other state officers and employees, and shall receive payment of the same in the manner provided for members of the commission.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-65, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
