# § 43-40-25.2. Alternative disciplinary procedures; citations

(a) It is the intent of the General Assembly to provide the commission with measures to use as alternatives to the sanctions provided for in subsection (a) of Code Section 43-40-25. The citation and letter of findings provided for in this Code section shall not be construed as a disciplinary sanction.
(b) Whenever the evidence gathered in an investigation reveals an apparent violation of this chapter or of the rules and regulations promulgated by the commission or the apparent commission of any unfair trade practice by a licensee, the commission, in its discretion, may:
  (1) Initiate the process for the imposition of sanctions, as provided for in subsection (a) of Code Section 43-40-25 and in accordance with the hearing procedures established for contested cases by Chapter 13 of Title 50;
  (2) Issue a citation to the licensee. Such citation, which shall be served personally or by mail, shall give notice to the licensee of the alleged violation or violations of this chapter or commission rules or alleged unfair trade practice or practices and inform the licensee of the opportunity to request a contested case hearing to be held in accordance with the procedures established for such hearings by Chapter 13 of Title 50. A citation issued by the commission may include an order to complete a course of study in real estate brokerage or instruction; to file periodic reports by an independent accountant on a real estate broker's designated trust account; or to pay a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 for each violation of this chapter or its rules and regulations, with fines for multiple violations limited to $5,000.00 in any one citation, or a combination of the above. If the licensee fails to request a hearing within 30 days of the date of service of the citation, the order contained in the citation shall be final. The failure of a licensee to comply with a final order contained in a citation may be cause for the imposition of a sanction on such person's license, after notice and opportunity for a hearing; or
  (3) Issue a letter of findings to the licensee if the alleged violation appears to have done no harm to a third party or to the public. Such letter of findings, which shall be served personally or by mail, shall give notice to the licensee of the alleged violation or violations of this chapter or commission rules or alleged unfair trade practice or practices. A letter of findings shall be confidential and shall not appear on the license history of a licensee. A letter of findings shall not be subject to a subpoena in a civil action, shall not constitute a public record or be available for inspection by the public, and shall not be disclosed to any person or agency, except as provided in subsection (d) of Code Section 43-40-27.
(c) The commission is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to implement this Code section. Such rules may limit the provisions of this chapter and of its rules and regulations and unfair trade practices which may be the basis for the issuance of a citation or a letter of findings.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 744,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2012.
