# § 43-40-14. Power of commission to issue, revoke, or suspend licenses and censure licensees; power to enter contracts; retention of funds

The commission shall have the full power to regulate the issuance of licenses, to revoke or suspend licenses issued under this chapter, and to censure licensees. The commission is authorized to enter into such contracts as are necessary to carry out its duties under this chapter; provided, however, the commission may enter into contracts to assist it in the conduct of investigations and examinations of brokers' trust accounts authorized by this chapter only whenever it needs special legal or accounting expertise or other extraordinary circumstances exist. Whenever the commission contracts to perform such investigation or examination of trust account functions, any such contractor working on an investigation or examination of a trust account authorized by this chapter shall be under the supervision of the commission or an employee of the commission. Any contractor used by the commission shall be knowledgeable in the work area for which such contractor is retained. A contractor shall not be empowered to determine the disposition of any investigation or examination of a trust account nor to make any discretionary decision that the commission is authorized by law to make. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the commission is authorized to retain all funds received as collection fees for use in defraying the cost of collection of fees required under this chapter. Any such funds not expended for this purpose in the fiscal year in which they are generated shall be deposited in the state treasury; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall be construed so as to allow the commission to retain any funds required by the Constitution to be paid into the state treasury; provided, further, that the commission shall comply with all provisions of Part 1 of Article 4 of Chapter 12 of Title 45, the "Budget Act," except Code Section 45-12-92, prior to expending any such funds.
