# § 31-1-18. Individuals with high risk for breast cancer; consumer information

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "individual with a high risk for breast cancer" means an individual:
  (1) With a lifetime risk of breast cancer of 20 percent or greater as according to a risk assessment tool based primarily on family history, such as but not limited to, the Tyrer-Cuzick Version 8.0b model;
  (2) With a known BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation based on genetic testing;
  (3) Who has not had genetic testing, but has a first-degree relative with a BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation;
  (4) Who has had radiation therapy to the chest between ten and 30 years of age; and
  (5) Who has Li-Fraumeni syndrome, Cowden syndrome, or Bannayan-Riley-Ruvalcaba syndrome or has a first-degree relative who has any such syndrome.
(b) The department, in consultation with the Georgia Composite Medical Board, shall identify and compile information on factors and pertinent history to identify individuals with a high risk for breast cancer. Such information shall be reviewed annually and updated, if necessary.
(c) The information identified and compiled pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall be posted in a prominent location on the department's website for the purpose of providing consumers with information on pertinent family history and other factors that should be provided to an individual's physician to determine whether someone is an individual with a high risk for breast cancer. Such information shall also be annually distributed by the Georgia Composite Medical Board to all physicians licensed to practice medicine in this state.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 587,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
