# § 31-1-19. Prohibition on expenditure or use of state resources to advocate for or intend to influence citizens in support of Medicaid expansion under the federal Affordable Care Act

(a) Neither the state nor any department, agency, bureau, authority, office, or other unit of the state nor any political subdivision of the state shall expend or use moneys, human resources, or assets to advocate or intended to influence the citizens of this state in support of the voluntary expansion by the State of Georgia of eligibility for medical assistance in furtherance of the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, Public Law 111-148, beyond the eligibility criteria in effect on April 15, 2014, under the provisions of 42 U.S.C. Section 1396a(a)(10)(A)(i) (VIII) of the federal Social Security Act, as amended.
(b) The Attorney General shall enforce the provisions of this Code section in accordance with Article V, Section III, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prevent an officer or employee of the State of Georgia or of any department, agency, bureau, authority, office, unit, or political subdivision thereof from advocating or attempting to influence public policy:
  (1) As part of such person's official duties;
  (2) When acting on personal time without using state resources; or
  (3) When providing bona fide educational instruction about the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act of 2010 in institutions of higher learning or otherwise.
(d) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to preclude the state from participating in any Medicaid program.

## History

Renumbered by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 31, eff. 5/2/2022.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 31, eff. 5/12/2019.
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 529,§ 1-2, eff. 4/15/2014.
