# § 31-1-17. Notification of dense breast tissue

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Dense breast tissue" means heterogeneously or extremely dense breast tissue based on nationally recognized guidelines or systems for breast imaging reporting of mammography including, but not limited to, the Breast Imaging Reporting and Data System established by the American College of Radiology.
  (2) "Health care facility" means a hospital, outpatient department, clinic, radiology practice, or mobile unit; an office of a physician; or other medical facility.
(b) If a patient's mammogram demonstrates dense breast tissue, the health care facility that conducted the mammogram shall provide notification to the patient that includes, but is not limited to, the following information, in the summary of the results of a mammography examination that is sent directly to a patient pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Section 263b: "Your mammogram shows that your breast tissue is dense. Dense breast tissue is very common and is not abnormal. However, dense breast tissue can make it more difficult to detect cancer through a mammogram. Also, dense breast tissue may increase your risk for breast cancer. This information about the result of your mammogram is given to you to increase your awareness. Use this information to talk with your health care provider about whether other supplemental tests in addition to your mammogram may be appropriate for you, based on your individual risk. A report of your results was sent to your ordering physician. If you are self-referred, a report of your results was sent to you in addition to this summary."

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 138,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
