# § 31-1-13. Hemophilia Advisory Board

(a) The commissioner of public health in conjunction with the commissioner of community health shall establish an independent advisory board known as the Hemophilia Advisory Board.
(b)
  (1) The following persons shall serve as nonvoting members of the Hemophilia Advisory Board:
    (A) The commissioner of public health or a designee; and
    (B) The commissioner of community health or a designee.
  (2) The following voting members shall be appointed by the commissioner of public health, in consultation with the commissioner of community health, and shall serve a three-year term:
    (A) One member who is a board certified physician licensed, practicing, and currently treating individuals with hemophilia and other bleeding disorders and who specializes in the treatment of these individuals;
    (B) One member who is a nurse licensed, practicing, and currently treating individuals with hemophilia and other bleeding disorders;
    (C) One member who is a social worker licensed, practicing, and currently treating individuals with hemophilia and other bleeding disorders;
    (D) One member who is a representative of a federally funded hemophilia treatment center in this state;
    (E) One member who is a representative of a nonprofit organization that has, as its primary purpose, the provision of services to the population of this state with hemophilia and other bleeding disorders;
    (F) One member who is a person who has hemophilia;
    (G) One member who is a caregiver of a person who has hemophilia; and
    (H) One member who is a person who has a bleeding disorder other than hemophilia or who is a caregiver of a person who has a bleeding disorder other than hemophilia.
  (3) The Hemophilia Advisory Board may also have up to five additional nonvoting members as determined appropriate by the commissioner and the commissioner of community health. These nonvoting members may be persons with, or caregivers of a person with, hemophilia or other bleeding disorder or persons experienced in the diagnosis, treatment, care, and support of individuals with hemophilia or other bleeding disorders.
(c)
  (1) Board members shall elect from among the voting board members a presiding officer. The presiding officer retains all voting rights.
  (2) A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum at any meeting held by the Hemophilia Advisory Board.
  (3) If there is a vacancy on the Hemophilia Advisory Board, such position shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
  (4) Members of the Hemophilia Advisory Board shall receive no compensation for service on the Hemophilia Advisory Board.
(d) The Hemophilia Advisory Board shall meet at least quarterly and at the call of the commissioner, the commissioner of community health, or the presiding officer and follow all policies and procedures of Chapter 14 of Title 50, relating to open and public meetings.
(e) The department shall provide reasonably necessary administrative support for Hemophilia Advisory Board activities.
(f) The Hemophilia Advisory Board shall review and make recommendations to the commissioner and the commissioner of community health with regard to issues that affect the health and wellness of persons living with hemophilia and other bleeding disorders, including, but not limited to, the following:
  (1) Proposed legislative or administrative changes to policies and programs that are integral to the health and wellness of individuals with hemophilia and other bleeding disorders;
  (2) Standards of care and treatment for persons living with hemophilia and other bleeding disorders, taking into consideration the federal and state standards of care guidelines developed by state and national organizations, including, but not limited to, the Medical and Scientific Advisory Council of the National Hemophilia Foundation;
  (3) The development of community based initiatives to increase awareness of care and treatment for persons living with hemophilia and other bleeding disorders; and
  (4) The coordination of public and private support networking systems.
(g) The Hemophilia Advisory Board shall, no later than October 1, 2019, and annually thereafter, submit to the Office of Health Strategy and Coordination a report of its findings and recommendations. Annually thereafter, the commissioner of public health, in consultation with the commissioner of community health, shall report to the Governor and the General Assembly on the status of implementing the recommendations as proposed by the Hemophilia Advisory Board. The reports shall be made public and shall be subject to public review and comment.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 41,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
