# § 31-1-15. Storage, maintenance, control, and oversight of auto-injectable epinephrine by certain authorized entities

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Authorized entity" means any entity or organization, other than a school subject to Code Section 20-2-776.2, in connection with or at which allergens capable of causing anaphylaxis may be present, as identified by the department. The department shall, through rule or other guidance, identify the types of entities and organizations that are considered authorized entities no later than January 1, 2016, and shall review and update such rule or guidance at least annually thereafter. For purposes of illustration only, such entities may include, but are not limited to, restaurants, recreation camps, youth sports leagues, theme parks and resorts, and sports arenas.
  (2) "Auto-injectable epinephrine" means a single-use device used for the automatic injection of a premeasured dose of epinephrine into the human body.
  (3) "Health care practitioner" means a physician licensed to practice medicine in this state, an advanced practice registered nurse acting pursuant to the authority of Code Section 43-34-25, and a physician assistant acting pursuant to the authority of subsection (e.1) of Code Section 43-34-103.
(b) An authorized entity may acquire and stock a supply of auto-injectable epinephrine pursuant to a prescription issued in accordance with Code Section 26-4-116.1. Such auto-injectable epinephrine shall be stored in a location readily accessible in an emergency and in accordance with the auto-injectable epinephrine's instructions for use and any additional requirements that may be established by the department. An authorized entity shall designate employees or agents who have completed the training required by subsection (d) of this Code section to be responsible for the storage, maintenance, control, and general oversight of auto-injectable epinephrine acquired by the authorized entity.
(c) An employee or agent of an authorized entity, or any other individual, who has completed the training required by subsection (d) of this Code section may use auto-injectable epinephrine prescribed pursuant to Code Section 26-4-116.1 to:
  (1) Provide auto-injectable epinephrine to any individual who the employee, agent, or other individual believes in good faith is experiencing anaphylaxis, or to the parent, guardian, or caregiver of such individual, for immediate administration, regardless of whether the individual has a prescription for auto-injectable epinephrine or has previously been diagnosed with an allergy; and
  (2) Administer auto-injectable epinephrine to any individual who the employee, agent, or other individual believes in good faith is experiencing anaphylaxis, regardless of whether the individual has a prescription for auto-injectable epinephrine or has previously been diagnosed with an allergy.
(d) An employee, agent, or other individual described in subsection (b) or (c) of this Code section shall complete an anaphylaxis training program and repeat such training at least every two years following completion of the initial anaphylaxis training program. Such training shall be conducted by a nationally recognized organization experienced in training laypersons in emergency health treatment or an entity or individual approved by the department. Training may be conducted online or in person and, at a minimum, shall cover:
  (1) How to recognize signs and symptoms of severe allergic reactions, including anaphylaxis;
  (2) Standards and procedures for the storage and administration of auto-injectable epinephrine; and
  (3) Emergency follow-up procedures.
(e) An authorized entity that possesses and makes available auto-injectable epinephrine and its employees, agents, and other individuals; a health care practitioner that prescribes or dispenses auto-injectable epinephrine to an authorized entity; a pharmacist or health care practitioner that dispenses auto-injectable epinephrine to an authorized entity; and an individual or entity that conducts the training described in subsection (d) of this Code section shall not be liable for any injuries or related damages that result from any act or omission taken pursuant to this Code section; provided, however, that this immunity does not apply to acts or omissions constituting willful or wanton misconduct. The administration of auto-injectable epinephrine in accordance with this Code section is not the practice of medicine or any other profession that otherwise requires licensure. This Code section does not eliminate, limit, or reduce any other immunity or defense that may be available under state law, including that provided under Code Section 51-1-29. An entity located in this state shall not be liable for any injuries or related damages that result from the provision or administration of auto-injectable epinephrine outside of this state if the entity:
  (1) Would not have been liable for such injuries or related damages had the provision or administration occurred within this state; or
  (2) Is not liable for such injuries or related damages under the law of the state in which such provision or administration occurred.
(f) An authorized entity that possesses and makes available auto-injectable epinephrine shall submit to the department, on a form developed by the department, a report including each incident on the authorized entity's premises that involves the administration of auto-injectable epinephrine pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section and any other information deemed relevant by the department. The department shall annually publish a report that summarizes and analyzes all reports submitted to it under this subsection.
(g) The department shall establish requirements regarding the storage, maintenance, control, and oversight of the auto-injectable epinephrine, including but not limited to any temperature limitations and expiration of such auto-injectable epinephrine.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 56,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
