# § 15-12-12. Power of chief judge of superior court to appoint a jury clerk and other necessary personnel; juror qualifications

(a) In all counties of this state where the chief superior court judge of the county had the power to appoint a jury clerk on January 1, 2011, the chief judge of the superior court of such counties shall continue to have the power to appoint a jury clerk and such other personnel as may be deemed necessary or advisable to dispatch the work of the court, and the appointments to such positions and the compensation therefor shall be determined by such judge without regard to any other system or rules, such personnel to serve at the pleasure of such judge, and the salaries and expenses thereof and any attendant expenses of administration of the courts are determined to be contingent expenses of court and shall be paid as provided by law for the payment of contingent expenses. The duties of such personnel shall be as prescribed by such judge.
(b) All prospective jurors in such counties shall be required to answer questionnaires as may be determined and submitted by the chief superior court judge of such counties concerning their qualifications as jurors.
(c) In the event any such person fails or refuses to answer such questionnaire, the clerk shall report such failure or refusal to the court, together with the facts concerning the same, and the court shall have such jurisdiction as is now provided by law for subpoena, attachment, and contempt powers.
(d) This Code section shall be in addition and supplemental to other provisions provided by law, with a view toward efficient and orderly handling of jury selection and the administration of justice.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 578,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2014.
