# § 15-12-83. Oath of court reporter attending grand jury proceeding; compensation; role and responsibilities

(a) Upon the request of the district attorney or when the grand jury proceedings are in accordance with Code Section 17-7-52, a court reporter shall be authorized to be present and shall attend such proceedings. Before attending the grand jury proceedings, the court reporter shall take the following oath: "I do solemnly swear that I will keep secret all things and matters coming to my knowledge while in attendance upon the grand jury, so help me God."
(b) The district attorney of the circuit in which the county is located shall appoint the court reporter and, notwithstanding any law to the contrary, fix the compensation therefor, and such compensation, including the cost of transcripts, shall be paid by the county.
(c) The court reporter shall take and transcribe the testimony of any witness appearing before the grand jury and any argument or legal advice provided to the grand jury by the prosecuting attorney and shall furnish such transcript to the district attorney.
(d) When a witness testifies pursuant to a grant of immunity as provided in Code Section 24-5-507, such testimony shall be transcribed, a copy of the transcript shall be provided to the district attorney, and the original transcript shall be filed under seal in the office of the clerk.
(e) The court reporter shall be incompetent to testify at any hearing or trial concerning any matter or thing coming to the knowledge of the court reporter while in attendance upon the grand jury.
(f) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, a recording, any court reporter's notes, and any transcript prepared from such recording or notes shall be provided solely to the district attorney, who shall retain control of such recording, notes, and transcript. The district attorney may use such materials to the extent such use is appropriate to the proper performance of his or her official duties, including compliance with Article 1 of Chapter 16 of Title 17.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 350,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2016.
