# § 15-12-1. Definitions

(1) "Array" means the body of persons subject to voir dire from which the final jury and alternate jurors are selected.
(2) "Choose" or "chosen" means the act of randomly selecting potential jurors from the county master jury list in a manner that does not deliberately or systematically exclude identifiable and distinct groups from the venire.
(3) "Clerk" means the clerk of the superior court or a jury clerk if one is appointed pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 15-12-11 or Code Section 15-12-12.
(4) "Council" means The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia.
(5) "County master jury list" means a list compiled by the council of names of persons, including their addresses, city of residence, dates of birth, and gender, eligible for trial or grand jury service.
(6) "Defer" means a postponement of a person's jury service until a later date.
(7) "Excuse" means the grant of a person's request for temporary exemption from jury service.
(8) "Inactivate" means removing a person's name and identifying information who has been identified on the county master jury list as a person who is permanently prevented from being chosen as a trial or grand juror because such person is statutorily ineligible or incompetent to serve as a juror.
(9) "State-wide master jury list" means a comprehensive master list that identifies every person of this state who can be determined to be prima facie qualified to serve as a trial or grand juror.
(10) "Venire" means the list of persons summoned to serve as trial or grand jurors for a particular term of court.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 668,§ 1, eff. 4/29/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 578,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Enacted by 2011 Ga. Laws 50,§ 1-5, eff. 7/1/2011.
Former § 15-12-1 was redesignated as § 15-12-1.1 by 2011 Ga. Laws 50,§ 1-5
