# § 15-12-40.1. State-wide master jury list; driver's license information; list of registered voters; random list of persons to comprise venire

(a) After July 1, 2011, the council shall compile a state-wide master jury list.
(b) On and after July 1, 2017, upon the council's request, the Department of Driver Services shall provide the council data showing the full name of all persons who are at least 18 years of age and residents of this state who have been issued a driver's license or personal identification card pursuant to Chapter 5 of Title 40. In addition to the person's full name, the Department of Driver Services shall include the person's address, city of residence, date of birth, gender, driver's license or personal identification card number, and, whenever racial information is collected by the Department of Driver Services, racial information. The Department of Driver Services shall provide the document issue date and document expiration date; shall indicate whether the document is a driver's license or a personal identification card; and shall exclude persons whose driver's license has been suspended or revoked due to a felony conviction, whose driver's license has been expired for more than 730 days, or who have been identified as not being citizens of the United States. Such data shall also include a secure unique identifier, determined according to the specifications of the council in consultation with the Department of Driver Services, which shall be a representation of the last four digits of the social security number associated with each driver's license or personal identification card holder. The council shall provide the Department of Driver Services with the software required to generate such secure unique identifier. The Department of Driver Services shall also provide the names and identifying information specified by this subsection of persons convicted in this state or in another state of driving without a license. Such data shall be in electronic format as required by the council.
(c)
  (1) On and after July 1, 2017, upon request by the council, the Secretary of State shall provide to the council, without cost, data showing:
    (A) The list of registered voters, including the voter's date of birth, address, gender, driver's license number, and when it is available, the voter's race. Such list shall exclude persons whose voting rights have been removed; and
    (B) The full name, date of birth, address, gender, and, when such information is available, the race of any individual declared as mentally incompetent within the information collected by the Secretary of State under subsection (b) of Code Section 21-2-231.
  (2) The data provided to the council pursuant to this subsection shall also include a secure unique identifier, determined according to the specifications of the council in consultation with the Secretary of State, which shall be a representation of the last four digits of the social security number associated with each voter. The council shall provide the Secretary of State with the software required to generate such secure unique identifier.
(d) On and after July 1, 2014, each clerk shall obtain its county master jury list from the council. The council shall disseminate, in electronic format, a county master jury list to the respective clerk once each calendar year. The council shall determine the fee to be assessed each county for such list, provided that such fee shall not exceed 3¢ per name on the list. The council shall invoice each clerk upon the delivery of the county master jury list, and the recipient county shall remit payment within 30 days of the invoice.
(e) On and after July 1, 2017, upon request by the council, the Department of Public Health shall provide to the council, without cost, data relating to death certificates for residents of this state for the 15 year period preceding the date of the request. In addition to the deceased person's full name, the data shall include the person's address, including the county of residence and ZIP Code, date of birth, gender, county in which the person died, and, when such information is available, the person's race. Such data shall also include a secure unique identifier, determined according to the specifications of the council in consultation with the Department of Public Health, which shall be a representation of the last four digits of the social security number associated with each deceased person. The council shall provide the Department of Public Health with the software required to generate such secure unique identifier. Such data shall be in electronic format as required by the council.
(f) On and after July 1, 2017, upon request by the council, the Department of Corrections shall provide to the council, without cost, data showing a list of the names of all persons who have been convicted of a felony in this state. In addition to the convicted person's full name, the data shall include the person's address, including the county of residence and ZIP Code, date of birth, gender, and, when such information is available, the convicted person's race. Such data shall also include a secure unique identifier, determined according to the specifications of the council in consultation with the Department of Corrections, which shall be a representation of the last four digits of the social security number associated with each convicted person. The council shall provide the Department of Corrections with the software required to generate such secure unique identifier. Such data shall be in electronic format as required by the council.
(g) On and after July 1, 2017, upon request by the council, the State Board of Pardons and Paroles shall provide to the council, without cost, data showing a list of the names of all persons who have had his or her civil rights restored. In addition to the person's full name, the data shall include the person's address, including the county of residence and ZIP Code, date of birth, gender, and, when such information is available, the person's race. Such data shall also include a secure unique identifier, determined according to the specifications of the council in consultation with the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, which shall be a representation of the last four digits of the social security number associated with each person. The council shall provide the State Board of Pardons and Paroles with the software required to generate such secure unique identifier. Such data shall be in electronic format as required by the council.
(h) On or after July 1, 2017, in each county the clerk shall choose a random list of persons from the county master jury list to comprise the venire.
(i) The Supreme Court may establish, by rules, reasonable standards for the preparation, dissemination, and technological improvements of the state-wide master jury list and county master jury lists.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 235,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-18, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 578,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 599,§ III-3-2, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 50,§ 1-16, eff. 7/1/2011.
