# § 15-12-122. Demand of jury panels from which to select jury in civil actions in the state courts and the superior courts

(a)
  (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, in all civil actions in the state courts, each party may demand a full panel of 12 competent and impartial jurors from which to select a jury. When one or more of the regular panel of trial jurors is absent or for any reason disqualified, the judge, at the request of counsel for either party, shall cause the panel to be filled by additional competent and impartial jurors to the number of 12 before requiring the parties or their counsel to strike a jury. In all cases the parties or their attorneys may strike alternately, with the plaintiff exercising the first strike, until a jury of six persons is impaneled to try the case.
  (2) In all civil actions in the state courts in which the claim for damages is greater than $50,000.00, either party may demand in writing prior to the commencement of the trial term that the case be tried by a jury of 12. If such a demand is made, the judge shall follow the procedures for superior courts of subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) In all civil actions in the superior courts, each party may demand a full panel of 24 competent and impartial jurors from which to select a jury. When one or more of the regular panel of trial jurors is absent or for any reason disqualified, the judge, at the request of counsel for either party, shall cause the panel to be filled by additional competent and impartial jurors to the number of 24 before requiring the parties or their counsel to strike a jury. In all cases the parties or their attorneys may strike alternately, with the plaintiff exercising the first strike, until a jury of 12 persons is impaneled to try the case.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 339,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to all civil actions that may be brought or are pending in state courts on or after 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 15, eff. 5/13/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 821,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
