# § 15-12-100. Procedure for impaneling special grand jury; number of jurors; foreperson; powers of jury

(a) The chief judge of the superior court of any county to which this part applies, on his or her own motion, on motion or petition of the district attorney, or on petition of any elected public official of the county or of a municipality lying wholly or partially within the county, may request the judges of the superior court of the county to impanel a special grand jury for the purpose of investigating any alleged violation of the laws of this state or any other matter subject to investigation by grand juries as provided by law.
(b) Until July 1, 2012, the chief judge of the superior court of the county shall submit the question of impaneling a special grand jury to the judges of the superior court of the county and, if a majority of the total number of the judges vote in favor of impaneling a special grand jury, the members of a special grand jury shall be drawn in the manner prescribed by Code Section 15-12-62. On and after July 1, 2012, the chief judge of the superior court of the county shall submit the question of impaneling a special grand jury to the judges of the superior court of the county and, if a majority of the total number of the judges vote in favor of impaneling a special grand jury, the members of a special grand jury shall be chosen in the manner prescribed by Code Section 15-12-62.1. Any special grand jury shall consist of not less than 16 nor more than 23 persons. The foreperson of any special grand jury shall be selected in the manner prescribed by Code Section 15-12-67.
(c) While conducting any investigation authorized by this part, investigative grand juries may compel evidence and subpoena witnesses; may inspect records, documents, correspondence, and books of any department, agency, board, bureau, commission, institution, or authority of the state or any of its political subdivisions; and may require the production of records, documents, correspondence, and books of any person, firm, or corporation which relate directly or indirectly to the subject of the investigation being conducted by the investigative grand jury.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 350,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 50,§ 1-37, eff. 7/1/2011.
