# § 50-9-17. Transferred authorities

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Authority" means the Georgia Building Authority as set forth in Code Section 50-9-2.
  (2) "Transferred authorities" means the Georgia Building Authority (Markets) set forth in Article 1 of Chapter 10 of Title 2, the Georgia Building Authority (Hospital) set forth in Article 2 of Chapter 7 of Title 31, the Georgia Building Authority (Penal) set forth in Chapter 3 of Title 42, and the Agency for Removal of Hazardous Materials set forth in Article 4 of Chapter 9 of Title 50, as each entity existed as of June 30, 2008.
(b) Beginning July 1, 2008, all functions, duties, responsibilities, and obligations of the transferred authorities shall belong to the authority. The authority shall also succeed to the rights, claims, remedies, securities, and any other debt or obligation owing to the transferred authorities.
(c) The authority shall be substituted for the transferred authorities on any bonds, claims, causes of action, contracts, leases, agreements, or other indebtedness or obligations of the transferred authorities. Contracts held by the transferred authorities shall be considered contracts of the authority, and any rights of renewal, prerogatives, benefits, and rights of enforcement under such contracts shall also be transferred to the authority.
(d) Appropriations for functions transferred from the transferred authorities to the authority may be transferred as provided in Code Section 45-12-90, relating to disposition of appropriations for duties, purposes, and objects which have been transferred. Personnel, equipment, and facilities previously employed for such transferred functions shall likewise be transferred to the authority. Upon the effective date of the transfer, all personnel positions authorized for the transferred authorities shall be transferred to the authority and all employees whose positions are transferred to the authority shall become employees of the authority in the unclassified service as provided in Code Section 45-20-6.
(e) All assets, moneys, properties both tangible and intangible, and other valuable instruments and consideration belonging to the transferred authorities on the date of transfer shall become the property and assets of the authority.
(f) Rules and regulations previously adopted by the transferred authorities shall remain in full force and effect as rules and regulations of the authority until amended, repealed, or superseded by action of the authority.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 442,§ 5, eff. 5/6/2008.
