# § 50-6-24. Powers and duties

(1) Reserved;
(2) To examine thoroughly all financial transactions of all the state departments, institutions, agencies, commissions, bureaus, authorities, and officers and to keep such accounting records as are necessary to provide and maintain a current check upon the fiscal affairs and transactions of all state departments, institutions, agencies, etc.;
(3) To examine and audit thoroughly, at least once a year and more frequently if possible, each and all of the books, records, accounts, vouchers, warrants, bills, and all other papers and records of each and every department, institution, agency, commission, bureau, authority, and officer of the state which or who receives funds from the state or which is maintained in whole or in part by public funds, fees, or commissions. Upon the completion of each audit the state auditor shall prepare a complete report of the same in triplicate, one copy of which shall be filed with the official in charge of the department, institution, etc., so examined, one copy of which shall be transmitted to the Governor, and the third copy of which shall be filed in the office of the state auditor as a permanent record and for the use of the press of the state. In any such report, the state auditor shall call special attention to any illegal, improper, or unnecessary expenditures; all failures to keep records and vouchers required by the law; and all inaccuracies, irregularities, and shortages and shall make specific recommendations for the future avoidance of the same;
(4) To prepare annual and, whenever required, special reports to the Governor and the General Assembly showing the general financial operation and management of each state department, institution, agency, commission, authority, and bureau; showing whether or not the same is being handled in an efficient and economical manner; and calling special attention to any excessive cost of operation or maintenance, any excessive expense, and any excessive price paid for goods, supplies, or labor by any such department, institution, agency, etc.; and
(5) To make special examination into and report of the place and manner in which the funds of the state are kept by the several departments, institutions, agencies, commissions, bureaus, authorities, and officers after the same have been drawn from the state treasury or after the same have been collected and to report who has possession of the same or where the same are deposited, whether the same draw interest, the rate of interest, and whether the same are properly protected by bond, provided that this chapter shall not be construed so as to authorize the state auditor to remove or in any way interfere with any funds so deposited.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 548,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2008.
Repealed and reserved by 2005 Ga. Laws 140,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2005.
