# § 36-41-4. Creation of authority; governing board; filing of resolutions with Secretary of State; filling of vacancies on board; officers; compensation of members of board; promulgation of rules and regulations

There is created in and for each municipality of this state, as defined in paragraph (11) of Code Section 36-41-3, a public body corporate, which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the state, to be known as the "urban residential finance authority" of such municipality and which shall be governed by a board of not less than seven nor more than nine members. Each member of the board shall be a resident of the large municipality activating the authority. No more than two members of the board may be appointed by the mayor of the large municipality activating the authority with the remaining members appointed by the governing body of the municipality for such term and upon such conditions as specified by resolution of the governing body. Any member of the governing body of the large municipality, the mayor or other chief executive thereof, and the chief fiscal officer thereof may serve on the board. The provisions of Chapter 62A of this title relating to ethics and conflicts of interest shall apply to members of the board of each authority created under this Code section. No authority created under this Code section shall transact any business or exercise any powers under this chapter until the governing body of the large municipality activating the authority, by resolution, declares that there is need for an authority to function in such municipality. A copy of the resolution adopted by the governing body and copies of any resolution adopted by the governing body providing for filling vacancies in the membership of the board of the authority or making any changes in the membership of the board of the authority shall be filed with the Secretary of State. Appointments to fill vacancies on the board of any authority, either for an unexpired or full term as fixed in the original resolution creating the same, shall be made by the governing body of the municipality. The members of the board of each authority shall elect one of their members as chairman and another as vice-chairman and shall also elect a secretary-treasurer, who need not be a member of the board and need not be a resident of the municipality activating such authority. Each member of the board of each authority shall receive the same expense allowance per day as that received by a member of the General Assembly for each day such member is in attendance at a meeting of the authority, but shall receive the same for not more than 20 meeting days during any one fiscal year. For attendance at any conference in connection with the performance of their official duties, other than a meeting of the authority, members shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred and travel expenses in the same manner as provided by law for members of the General Assembly but shall receive the same for not more than ten days during any one fiscal year. However, if the secretary-treasurer is not a member of the board, then the secretary-treasurer may receive such compensation for his services as may be agreed upon by the members of the board. Each authority shall make rules and regulations for its government and may delegate to one or more of its members or its officers, agents, and employees such powers and duties as may be deemed necessary and proper.
