# § 7-2-8. Premiums and special assessments; distribution of assets on liquidation

(a) A regular annual premium, not to exceed one-twelfth of 1 percent of the deposits and shares of the member financial institution, shall be levied by the directors of the corporation. Such premium may be raised, lowered, waived, or refunded, in whole or in part, with prior approval by the department, in the event that the total funds held by the corporation justify or require such change. The corporation may charge its financial institutions variable rate premiums based upon determination of risk to the fund, provided that such risk rating is made according to formulas adopted by the directors of the corporation and approved by the department.
(b) In the event of potential impairment of the corporation's funds, special assessments may be levied by the directors of the corporation with the prior approval of the department, provided that such special assessments shall not exceed, in the aggregate, 1 percent of the deposits and shares of each member financial institution. Such special assessments shall be in the form of loans from the member financial institution to the corporation.
(c) Membership fees, annual premiums, and special assessments shall be based upon deposits and shares of member financial institutions as reported to the department in its most recent call report of condition and shall be payable within 30 days of the date on which the corporation notifies its members of any such premium or assessment.
(d) Annual premiums paid under this Code section shall be charged to the operating expenses of each member financial institution.
(e) In the event of liquidation of the corporation, all assets remaining after the payment or provision for payment of all debts and taxes and expenses of liquidation, including distributions to former members as provided for in Code Section 7-2-7, shall be distributed to the then existing member financial institutions in proportion to their membership fees paid into the corporation.
