# § 7-2-12. Copies of members' reports sent to corporation; additional examinations or audits; ordering corrective action or revoking membership

(a) The department shall forward to the corporation copies or summaries of all examination reports of member financial institutions. In the event a summary is provided, the corporation may request a complete and full report.
(b) The corporation may request the department to conduct additional examinations or to order independent audits of the records of member financial institutions. The department shall cooperate with the corporation upon such a request but shall use its discretion in determining the scope and timing of such additional examinations or audits.
(c) If the directors of the corporation ascertain evidence of carelessness, unsound practices, or mismanagement of any member financial institution which appears to affect adversely the solvency of the financial institution or threatens undue loss to the corporation, the directors may order that corrective action be taken or revoke the membership of the financial institution in the corporation or recommend to the department that the financial institution be liquidated. The department shall be provided a copy of any such order or letter of revocation. In the event of revocation of its membership, the financial institution shall notify all of its members of such revocation and that the deposits and shares are no longer insured by the corporation, provided that, in the event membership is revoked, insurance coverage shall continue in effect for 180 days. No refund required by subsection (e) of Code Section 7-2-7 shall be payable until after insurance coverage is terminated.
(d) If any member financial institution shall fail to pay any assessment, premium, or membership fee lawfully required under this chapter, the directors of the corporation shall notify the department, and the department shall forthwith notify the financial institution in writing. The failure of such financial institution to make such payment within 15 days after the said written notice may subject the financial institution to the sanctions set forth in subsection (c) of this Code section.
