# § 52-2-11. Power of authority to borrow money, to execute evidences of indebtedness, and to secure such indebtedness; sale and other disposition of property; utilization of proceeds of sale

(1) The authority may borrow money for its corporate purposes and may execute and deliver long-term and short-term notes, commercial paper, bond anticipation notes, and other obligations or evidences of indebtedness therefor and may secure such indebtedness in such manner as the authority may provide by its resolution authorizing the indebtedness to be incurred, provided that the authority shall not pledge to the payment of the indebtedness revenue pledged to the payment of any other indebtedness then outstanding or encumber property in violation of the terms of any existing contract, agreement, or trust indenture securing existing indebtedness.
(2) The authority may from time to time sell or otherwise dispose of surplus personal property and may sell or otherwise dispose of land and any improvements thereon acquired by the authority pursuant to law and which the authority may determine is not required for port or warehouse operations or for the future expansion and improvement of the state system of docks, including property which is suitable for industrial development. Any such property may be sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of upon such terms and conditions as may be provided by resolution of the authority. The proceeds of any such sale shall be used by the authority for the purposes provided by law. However, any sale of land or leasing of same and mortgaging of same or conveying the same as security for a loan as provided under this Code section shall be first approved in writing by the Governor, the state auditor, and the Attorney General.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 628,§ 4, eff. 6/3/2010.
