# § 52-2-5. Composition of authority; appointment, terms, and qualifications of members generally; filling of vacancies; election of chairperson, vice chairperson, and secretary-treasurer; quorum

(a) The authority shall consist of 12 members to be appointed by the Governor from the state at large.
(b) The nine members of the authority in office immediately prior to May 1, 2000, shall serve out the remainder of the terms for which they were appointed, all of such terms expiring on June 30 of the year of expiration. In addition to said nine members, the Governor shall appoint three members for terms to expire June 30, 2004. The director of the Office of Planning and Budget or his or her designee as approved by the Governor shall serve as an ex officio member of the authority.
(c) Successors to the members referred to in subsection (b) of this Code section and future successors shall each be appointed for a term of four years, which term shall begin on the day following the expiration of the term of office of the member such person is appointed to succeed. Any member of the authority shall be eligible for reappointment. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall serve only for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(d) The authority shall elect one of its members as chairperson and another member as vice chairperson and shall also elect a secretary-treasurer who shall not necessarily be a member of the authority.
(e) Seven members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of a quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority.

## History

Amended without change by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 52, eff. 2/12/2001.
