# § 52-2-14. Conveyance of Medical Depot site to authority; power to sell conveyed surplus lands and improvements; power to borrow and to issue revenue anticipation certificates

The Governor of this state is authorized to convey, for and in behalf of the state, title to lands and improvements known as the Medical Depot site in Chatham County, Georgia, adjacent to the Savannah River. For a more particular description, reference is made to the deed conveying the site from the State of Georgia to the Georgia Ports Authority upon payment of such nominal sum to the Office of the State Treasurer as may be agreed upon by the Governor and the authority. The authority shall have the power to sell any portions of land or improvements, or both, thus conveyed as are not required for port or warehouse operations or for the future expansion or improvement of the operation of a system of state docks, provided that any moneys received incident to such sales shall be utilized by the authority for the further expansion, construction, and improvement of the existing facilities located at the Medical Depot site in Chatham County on the Savannah River. The authority is empowered to borrow money on the existing facilities as described in this Code section and to issue revenue anticipation certificates to be retired from the revenue derived from the described facilities. All such sums, whether borrowed or secured through the sale of revenue anticipation certificates, shall be used for the exclusive purpose of developing a system of state docks at the site of the Medical Depot described in this Code section or for the purchase of necessary and essential equipment to be located thereon, or both, and for any and all purposes deemed necessary, essential, and expedient for the purpose of developing the site as a part of a system of state docks.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
