# § 52-2-10. Peace officers of the authority; jurisdiction; qualifications; additional duties and powers

(a)
  (1) The motor vehicle traffic laws for this state shall apply to all roads within the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority; provided, however, that the authority may determine and declare reasonable, safe, and lawful speed limits on all roads within its jurisdiction.
  (2) Those regular employees of the Georgia Ports Authority designated as peace officers shall have the power to arrest for traffic offenses committed and investigate motor vehicle accidents which occurred on any property under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority and upon any private or public property within one mile of any port, other than an inland port, under the jurisdiction of the authority.
  (3) Such arrest may be effected by issuance of a citation that shall enumerate the specific charges against the offender and the date on which the offender is to appear and answer the charges.
  (4) If the offender fails to appear as specified in the citation, the judge having jurisdiction of the offense may issue a warrant ordering the apprehension of such person and commanding that he or she be brought before the court to answer the charges contained in the citation and the charge of his or her failure to appear as required. The person shall be allowed to make a reasonable bond to appear on a given date before the court.
  (5) Peace officers shall be subject to Chapter 13 of Title 40, relating to uniform traffic citation and complaint forms.
(b) Peace officers of the Georgia Ports Authority may arrest for violations of state law committed upon any property under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority or while in pursuit of one whom the peace officer observed committing an offense upon any public or private property within one mile of property, other than an inland port, under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority.
(c) All offenders apprehended for criminal and traffic related offenses committed within the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority as provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section shall be tried by the appropriate city, county, or state tribunal.
(d) All peace officers of the Georgia Ports Authority shall be subject to the requirements of Chapter 8 of Title 35, the "Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act."
(e) While in the performance of their duties, peace officers of the Georgia Ports Authority shall have the same powers of arrest and the same powers to enforce law and order as the sheriff of the county and the chief of police of the county or municipality in this state wherein any such peace officer is performing his or her duty. While in the performance of their duties, any such peace officers shall be authorized to exercise such powers and duties as are authorized by law for members of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety.
(f) While in the performance of their duties, peace officers of the Georgia Ports Authority shall have the right to issue citations to vehicles parked in areas not specifically designated for the parking of vehicles while on properties under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority. The issuance of any such parking citation shall require the person who parked said vehicle to respond by the payment of a fine or by appearing in the court which handles misdemeanor traffic offenses for the county in which the property under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority is located, in which event the amount of the fine shall be fixed at the discretion of the judge of said court. In addition to the right to issue parking citations, peace officers of the Georgia Ports Authority shall have the right to remove improperly parked cars or vehicles in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 44-1-13.
(g) Peace officers of the Georgia Ports Authority shall have the following additional duties and powers:
  (1) Maintain peace and order and enforce laws and regulations relating to controlling access to any building or property under the control or operation of the Georgia Ports Authority;
  (2) Investigate criminal incidents and activity occurring on Georgia Ports Authority property or having a nexus to Georgia Ports Authority interests relative to ports other than inland ports;
  (3) Apprehend and arrest any person upon property under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority who is a fugitive from justice;
  (4) Serve and execute warrants upon property under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority;
  (5) Take reasonable steps necessary to prevent or dispel acts of disorderly conduct upon property under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority, upon any public or private property within one mile of property, other than an inland port, which is under the jurisdiction of the authority, or at the direction of the Governor;
  (6) Provide security protection services, or transportation or escort services, or both, to officials in connection with Georgia Ports Authority matters and at special events, regardless of whether the event takes place on property under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority, when such security protection services, or transportation or escort services, or both, are necessary or appropriate to deter actual or potential threats to the safety of such officials; and
  (7) While working within an official capacity, make initial inquiries into any situation under circumstances where reasonable grounds exist to believe a criminal law has been, is being, or is about to be violated upon property under the jurisdiction of the Georgia Ports Authority or on any public or private property within one mile of property, other than an inland port, under the jurisdiction of the authority. Any initial inquiry or arrest made shall be initiated only if a local law enforcement officer having primary jurisdiction is not readily available and the officer of the Georgia Ports Authority reasonably believes that a failure to act could result in the commission of a criminal act or the escape of a person who has committed a criminal act. In any action taken by an officer of the Georgia Ports Authority pursuant to this paragraph, such officer shall relinquish jurisdiction to the local law enforcement agency when feasible and as soon as practicable.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 56,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 672,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
