# § 37-12-12. Funding and budgeting; collaboration

(a) The requirements contained in this chapter shall be contingent upon the appropriation of funds by the General Assembly or the availability of other funds.
(b) No later than July 15, 2023, and annually thereafter, the department shall submit to the board proposed budgets for co-responder programs for each community service board. The proposed budget for each community service board shall be based on each community service board's operational analysis and shall include the salaries of an adequate number of staff dedicated to the responsibilities of the co-responder program and shall delineate unique factors existing in the area served, such as the population and demographics.
(c) In the event that full funding or staffing is not obtained by a community service board, such board may work collaboratively with other entities, including but not limited to the Georgia Association of Community Service Boards, to identify and apply for potential sources of additional funding, identify and pursue additional recruiting options, and identify the elements of the co-responder program that will be implemented given the resources available, until full resources are obtained.
(d) The department may pursue funding for purposes of implementing the co-responder program pursuant to this chapter, including without limitation from block grants, the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration; the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act of 2020, P.L. 116-136; the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, P.L. 117-2; and other grants.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 857,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2022.
Renumbered from 37-11-12..
