# § 37-12-10. Identification of individuals better served by behavioral health system than criminal justice system; referral system

(a) Community service board team members may review publicly available arrest and incarceration records and may request access to evaluate currently incarcerated individuals for the purpose of identifying individuals who may be treated more effectively within the behavioral health system rather than the criminal justice system. If such individuals are identified, the community service board team member shall provide a written recommendation to the appropriate law enforcement agency and jail or prison operator for consideration. The law enforcement agency and jail or prison operator shall provide community service board team members with access to requested nonrestricted records and shall grant access to such records at mutually convenient times, for the purpose of facilitating the community service board team member's analysis.
(b) The department shall establish a referral system, by which any law enforcement agency may request behavioral health consultation for an individual who is currently incarcerated, or frequently incarcerated, who it believes may be treated more effectively within the behavioral health system rather than the criminal justice system. The department shall assign the case to the appropriate community service board for evaluation and any appropriate treatment to be provided or facilitated by the community service board.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 857,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2022.
Renumbered from 37-11-10..
