# § 37-12-2. Co-responder partnership programs; operations and transportation

(a) Each community service board shall establish a co-responder program to offer assistance or consultation to peace officers responding to emergency calls involving individuals with behavioral health crises. Law enforcement agencies within a community service board's service area may elect to partner with the community service board to establish one or more co-responder teams.
(b) When a law enforcement agency that has entered into a co-responder partnership with a community service board responds to an emergency call involving an individual with a behavioral health crisis and a co-responder team is dispatched, a community service board team member shall be available to accompany the officer team member in person or via virtual means or shall be available for consultation via telephone or telehealth during such emergency call. The officer team member may consider input from the community service board team member in determining whether to refer an individual for behavioral health treatment or other community support or to transport the individual for emergency evaluation in accordance with Code Section 37-3-42 or 37-7-42, rather than making an arrest.
(c) In the event that the officer team member transports the individual for emergency evaluation in accordance with Code Section 37-3-42 or 37-7-42, the emergency receiving facility shall notify the community service board, prior to the release of the individual whether or not the individual is admitted for treatment, for purposes of identifying and facilitating any necessary follow-up services for such individual to prevent relapse.
(d) Following an individual's behavioral health crisis, the community service board shall make available voluntary outpatient therapy to eligible individuals pursuant to Code Section 37-12-9.
(e) Transport conducted pursuant to this Code section shall occur in government-owned vehicles configured for safe transport based on the individual's condition; provided, however, that the officer team member may authorize alternative transportation by a medical transport company or otherwise if deemed safe to do so based on the individual's condition.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 857,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2022.
Renumbered from 37-11-2. Pursuant to Code Section 28-9-5, in 2022, " Code Section 37-12-9" was substituted for " Code Section 37-11-9" at the end of subsection (d).
