# § 16-6-4. Child molestation; aggravated child molestation

(a) A person commits the offense of child molestation when such person:
  (1) Does an immoral or indecent act to or in the presence of or with any child under the age of 16 years with the intent to arouse or satisfy the sexual desires of either the child or the person; or
  (2) By means of an electronic device, transmits images of a person engaging in, inducing, or otherwise participating in an immoral or indecent act to a child under the age of 16 years with the intent to arouse or satisfy the sexual desires of either the child or the person.
(a.1) For purposes of this Code section, when a person does an immoral or indecent act involving touching of any child under the age of 16 years with the intent to arouse or satisfy the sexual desires of the child or the person, and such person touches such child in multiple areas of such child's body, the touching of each area shall constitute a separate offense of child molestation.
(b)
  (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a person convicted of a first offense of child molestation shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than five nor more than 20 years and shall be subject to the sentencing and punishment provisions of Code Sections 17-10-6.2 and 17-10-7. Upon a defendant being incarcerated on a conviction for a first offense, the Department of Corrections shall provide counseling to such defendant. Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, upon a second or subsequent conviction of an offense of child molestation, the defendant shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than ten years nor more than 30 years or by imprisonment for life and shall be subject to the sentencing and punishment provisions of Code Sections 17-10-6.2 and 17-10-7; provided, however, that prior to trial, a defendant shall be given notice, in writing, that the state intends to seek a punishment of life imprisonment.
  (2) If the victim is at least 14 but less than 16 years of age and the person convicted of child molestation is 18 years of age or younger and is no more than four years older than the victim, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall not be subject to the sentencing and punishment provisions of Code Section 17-10-6.2.
(c) A person commits the offense of aggravated child molestation when such person commits an offense of child molestation which act physically injures the child or involves an act of sodomy.
(d)
  (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a person convicted of the offense of aggravated child molestation shall be punished by imprisonment for life or by a split sentence that is a term of imprisonment for not less than 25 years and not exceeding life imprisonment, followed by probation for life, and shall be subject to the sentencing and punishment provisions of Code Sections 17-10-6.1 and 17-10-7.
  (2) A person convicted of the offense of aggravated child molestation when:
    (A) The victim is at least 13 but less than 16 years of age;
    (B) The person convicted of aggravated child molestation is 18 years of age or younger and is no more than four years older than the victim; and
    (C) The basis of the charge of aggravated child molestation involves an act of sodomy shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall not be subject to the sentencing and punishment provisions of Code Section 17-10-6.1.
(e) A person shall be subject to prosecution in this state pursuant to Code Section 17-2-1 for any conduct made unlawful by paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section which the person engages in while:
  (1) Either within or outside of this state if, by such conduct, the person commits a violation of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section which involves a child who resides in this state; or
  (2) Within this state if, by such conduct, the person commits a violation of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section which involves a child who resides within or outside this state.
(f)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "sexual felony" shall have the same meaning as set forth in paragraph (2) of subsection (j) of Code Section 16-5-21.
  (2) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section, any person having been previously convicted of a sexual felony who is convicted of the felony offense of child molestation or aggravated child molestation shall be punished by imprisonment for life or a split sentence that is a term of imprisonment followed by probation for life. As a condition of probation, the court shall impose the requirement of electronic monitoring as set forth in paragraph (14) of subsection (a) of Code Section 42-8-35.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 347,§ 3-7, eff. 5/4/2023, app. to all offenses committed on and after 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 648,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 149,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 571,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2006.
