# § 16-6-1. Rape

(a) A person commits the offense of rape when he has carnal knowledge of:
  (1) A female forcibly and against her will; or
  (2) A female who is less than ten years of age. Carnal knowledge in rape occurs when there is any penetration of the female sex organ by the male sex organ. The fact that the person allegedly raped is the wife of the defendant shall not be a defense to a charge of rape.
(b) A person convicted of the offense of rape shall be punished by death, by imprisonment for life without parole, by imprisonment for life, or by a split sentence that is a term of imprisonment for not less than 25 years and not exceeding life imprisonment, followed by probation for life. Any person convicted under this Code section shall, in addition, be subject to the sentencing and punishment provisions of Code Sections 17-10-6.1 and 17-10-7.
(c) When evidence relating to an allegation of rape is collected in the course of a medical examination of the person who is the victim of the alleged crime, the Georgia Crime Victims Emergency Fund, as provided for in Chapter 15 of Title 17, shall be responsible for the cost of the medical examination to the extent that expense is incurred for the limited purpose of collecting evidence.
(d)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "sexual felony" shall have the same meaning as set forth in paragraph (2) of subsection (j) of Code Section 16-5-21.
  (2) Any person having been previously convicted of a sexual felony who is convicted of the offense of rape shall be punished by imprisonment for life or a split sentence that is a term of imprisonment followed by probation for life. As a condition of probation, the court shall impose the requirement of electronic monitoring as set forth in paragraph (14) of subsection (a) of Code Section 42-8-35.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 347,§ 3-4, eff. 5/4/2023, app. to all offenses committed on and after 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 53,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 571,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2006.
