# § 16-6-25. Harboring, concealing, or withholding information concerning a sexual offender; penalties

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "law enforcement unit" means any agency, organ, or department of this state, or a subdivision or municipality thereof, whose primary functions include the enforcement of criminal or traffic laws; the preservation of public order; the protection of life and property; or the prevention, detection, or investigation of crime. Such term shall also include the Department of Corrections, the Department of Community Supervision, and the State Board of Pardons and Paroles.
(b) Any person who knows or reasonably believes that a sexual offender, as defined in Code Section 42-1-12, is not complying, or has not complied, with the requirements of Code Section 42-1-12 and who, with the intent to assist such sexual offender in eluding a law enforcement unit that is seeking such sexual offender to question him or her about, or to arrest him or her for, his or her noncompliance with the requirements of Code Section 42-1-12:
  (1) Harbors, attempts to harbor, or assists another person in harboring or attempting to harbor such sexual offender;
  (2) Conceals, attempts to conceal, or assists another person in concealing or attempting to conceal such sexual offender; or
  (3) Provides information to the law enforcement unit regarding such sexual offender which the person knows to be false information commits a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than five nor more than 20 years.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-21, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 16, eff. 5/11/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 571,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2006.
