# § 43-34A-4. Requests for physician profiles; fees; confidentiality; dispersal of inaccurate profile prohibited

Any person or entity has the right to receive a physician profile from the board upon request. Requests for physician profiles shall be accepted by the board by telephone, in writing, or by e-mail. The person or entity requesting the profile shall provide the name of the physician for whom a profile is sought. The board may charge a nominal fee for copying as is permitted under subsection (c) of Code Section 50-18-71. The board shall not require the person or entity requesting a physician's profile to use a specific request form or provide a statement of reason for requesting the profile. The board shall not be required to prepare reports, summaries, or compilations of profiles not in existence at the time of the request. The board shall keep both the identity of the person or entity who requests a physician's profile and the request confidential. The board must respond to all requests within three business days by sending a copy of the physician profile to the requester. Fees may be charged in accordance with subsection (c) of Code Section 50-18-71. A physician may make available his or her current unaltered board approved profile to the patients in his or her practice. The physician may not knowingly disperse a profile that does not disclose recent disciplinary actions, criminal convictions, revocations or restriction of hospital privileges, settlements, medical malpractice judgments, or arbitration awards as set forth in paragraphs (11) through (17) of subsection (c) of Code Section 43-34A-3.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 43, eff. 5/13/2011.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 31, § 5, eff. 4/11/2001.
