# § 43-34A-9. Annual report

(a) On January 1 of each year, the board shall compile a report for the Governor and General Assembly containing a statistical and comparative data analysis using information obtained from the physician profiles in addition to other information collected by the board. The board shall not be required to distribute copies of the report to the Governor or members of the General Assembly but shall provide notification of the availability of the report in the manner which it deems to be the most effective and efficient.
(b) The report shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following information:
  (1) The number of physicians for which it has created physician profiles;
  (2) The specialty board certification of such physicians;
  (3) The geographic regions of the primary practices;
  (4) The number of physicians participating in the Medicaid program;
  (5) The number of physicians carrying any medical malpractice insurance and the specialty and current hospital privileges of the physicians not carrying such insurance and whether such physicians are actively seeing patients; and
  (6) The number of physicians on whom the board has conducted investigations for committing an act of sexual assault pursuant to paragraph (15.1) of subsection (a) of Code Section 43-34-8 or an act of sexual abuse, misconduct, or exploitation of a patient pursuant to paragraph (15) of subsection (a) of Code Section 43-34-8, and the outcome of the investigation which shall include whether the board refused, revoked, or suspended a license, or issued a private or public disciplinary order. In no event shall any identifying information be included in such report for any physician on whom the board conducted an investigation.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 291,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 108,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
