# § 43-34A-6. Right to file grievance with state board; display of declaration of rights in waiting rooms; board review of complaints; inclusion in physician profile

(a) The patient or any person that the board deems to have a legitimate interest has the right to file a grievance with the board concerning a physician, staff, office, or treatment received.
(b) A declaration of the patient's rights shall be prominently displayed in conspicuous language in the physician's waiting room. This declaration may be contained in the same notice as the right to obtain physician profiles. The declaration of rights shall contain the following statement: "The patient has the right to file a grievance with the Georgia Composite Medical Board concerning the physician, staff, office, and treatment received. The patient should either call the board with such a complaint or send a written complaint to the board. The patient should be able to provide the physician or practice name, the address, and the specific nature of the complaint."Such notice shall include the current phone number and address of the board.
(c) The board must review every complaint received to determine if there is sufficient evidence to warrant an investigation according to a procedure established by board regulation. Only investigated complaints upon which the board has taken disciplinary action shall be included in a physician's profile. The board must take the appropriate action as set forth in the regulations promulgated by the board. The board must respond in writing to the complaint within 60 days. In the response, the board shall inform the person whether the complaint is being referred for investigation, and if the complaint has been investigated, the results of the investigation or whether further investigation is required, and any board action taken.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 31, § 5, eff. 4/11/2001.
