# § 43-25A-6. Biennial renewal of license; address changes; failure to renew; inactive status of license

(a) Every license issued under this chapter shall be renewed biennially. A license shall be renewed upon payment of a renewal fee if the applicant is not in violation of any of the terms of this chapter at the time of application for renewal. The following shall also be required for license renewal:
  (1) Proof of maintenance of the applicant's Certification Board for Music Therapists credentials; and
  (2) Proof of completion of a minimum of 40 hours of continuing education in a program approved by the Certification Board of Music Therapists or any successor organization and any other continuing education requirements established by the Secretary.
(b) A licensee shall inform the Secretary of any changes to his or her address. Each licensee shall be responsible for timely renewal of his or her license.
(c) Failure to renew a license shall result in forfeiture of the license. Licenses that have been forfeited may be restored within one year of the expiration date upon payment of renewal and restoration fees. Failure to restore a forfeited license within one year of the date of its expiration shall result in the automatic termination of the license, and the Secretary may require the individual to reapply for licensure as a new applicant.
(d) Upon written request of a licensee, the Secretary may place an active license on an inactive status subject to an inactive status fee established by the Secretary. The licensee, upon request and payment of the inactive license fee, may continue on inactive status for a period up to two years. An inactive license may be reactivated at any time by making a written request to the Secretary and by fulfilling requirements established by the Secretary.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 705,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
