# § 17-5-52. Disposition of weapons used in commission of crime or delinquent act involving possession; civil forfeiture

When a final judgment is entered finding a defendant guilty of the commission or attempted commission of a crime against any person or guilty of the commission of a crime or delinquent act involving the illegal possession or carrying of a weapon, any device which was used as a weapon in the commission of the crime or delinquent act shall be turned over by the person having custody of the weapon or device to the sheriff, chief of police, or other executive officer of the law enforcement agency that originally confiscated the weapon or device when the weapon or device is no longer needed for evidentiary purposes. Within one year after receiving the weapon or device, the sheriff, chief of police, or other executive officer of the law enforcement agency shall return or sell the weapon as provided in Code Section 17-5-54, or if the weapon or device is subject to forfeiture, the procedures set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9 shall be followed notwithstanding the time frames set forth in Code Section 9-16-7. A state attorney seeking forfeiture under this Code section shall commence civil forfeiture proceedings within 60 days of the entry of a final judgment as contemplated by this Code section; the remaining provisions of Chapter 16 of Title 9 shall be applicable.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 3-15, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 764,§ 3, eff. 5/3/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 497,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2008.
