# § 20-1A-32. Program license or commission applicants; comprehensive records check requirements; change of ownership

(a) Accompanying any application for a new license or commission for an early care and education program, the applicant shall furnish to the department a records check application for the director and each employee. In lieu of such records check applications, the license applicant may submit evidence, satisfactory to the department, that such individual received a satisfactory comprehensive records check determination that includes a records check clearance date that is no more than 12 months old, notwithstanding Code Section 20-1A-45, or that any director or employee whose comprehensive records check revealed a criminal record of any kind has either subsequently received a satisfactory comprehensive records check determination or has had the unsatisfactory determination reversed in accordance with Code Section 20-1A-43, notwithstanding Code Section 20-1A-45. Either the department or the appropriate agencies may charge reasonable and additional processing fees for providing information pursuant to a records check application as required by statute, regulation, or policy or by GCIC.
(b) Each change of ownership applicant shall furnish to the department a records check application for the director and each employee. In lieu of such records check applications, the change of ownership applicant may submit evidence that the director and each employee at that facility received a satisfactory comprehensive records check determination that includes a records check clearance date that is no more than 60 months old, notwithstanding Code Section 20-1A-45, or that any director or employee whose comprehensive records check determination revealed a criminal record of any kind has either subsequently received a satisfactory comprehensive records check determination or has had the unsatisfactory determination reversed in accordance with Code Section 20-1A-43, notwithstanding Code Section 20-1A-45. Failure to comply with this provision shall prevent the department from issuing a license or commission.
(c) Any change of ownership applicant that operates under a permit granted by the department shall verify and maintain evidence sufficient to the department that each employee and director who was employed under the former ownership and will continue to work during the permit period has a satisfactory records check determination. If the department determines a change of ownership applicant knows or should reasonably know that any such individual has a criminal record and allows the individual to reside at an early care and education program or be present at an early care and education program while children are present for care, the department shall revoke the permit to operate and deny the license or commission for that early care and education program. Notwithstanding the requirements of this subsection, all requirements for new and provisional employees hired after the issuance of a permit shall apply.
(d) The time frames set forth in this Code section shall not apply when fingerprints have been retained by the department due to its participation in the program described in subparagraph (a)(1)(F) of Code Section 35-3-33.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 561,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 411,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 163,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2016.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 126,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2014.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 565, § 1, eff. 10/1/2004.
