# § 20-1A-12. Application; "license" defined; actions authorized by department in event of violations; investigations; governmental immunity

(a) This Code section shall be applicable to any early care and education program which is subject to regulation by the department in accordance with this chapter. For purposes of this Code section, the term "license" shall be used to refer to any license, commission, or permit issued by the department pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and the term "licensing requirements" shall be used to refer to any conditions related to the issuance and retention of any license, commission, or permit pursuant to the provisions of this chapter.
(b) The department shall have the authority to take any of the actions enumerated in subsection (c) of this Code section upon a finding that the applicant or holder of a license or registration has:
  (1) Knowingly made any false statement of material information in connection with the application for a license or registration, or in statements made or on documents submitted to the department as part of an inspection, survey, or investigation, or in the alteration or falsification of records maintained by the early care and education program;
  (2) Failed or refused to provide the department with access to the premises subject to regulation or information pertinent to the initial or continued licensing of the program;
  (3) Failed to comply with the licensing requirements or registration requirements of this state;
  (4) Failed to pay the annual fee required by subsection (k) of Code Section 20-1A-10; or
  (5) Failed to comply with any provisions of this chapter.
(c) When the department finds that any applicant or holder of a license or registration has violated any provision of subsection (b) of this Code section or laws, rules, regulations, or formal orders related to the initial or continued licensing of the program, the department, subject to notice and opportunity for hearing, may take any of the following actions:
  (1) Refuse to grant a license or registration; provided, however, that the department may refuse to grant a license or registration without holding a hearing prior to taking such action. The early care and education program shall have the right to appeal the denial in accordance with subsection (o) of Code Section 20-1A-10; provided, however, that the program shall remain closed until the appeal decision is issued;
  (2) Administer a public reprimand;
  (3) Suspend any license or registration for a definite period or for an indefinite period in connection with any condition which may be attached to the restoration of said license or registration;
  (4) Prohibit any applicant or holder of a license or registration from allowing a person who previously was involved in the management or control, as defined by rule, of any program which has had its license or registration revoked or denied within the past 12 months to be involved in the management or control of such program;
  (5) Revoke any license or registration;
  (6) Impose a fine, not to exceed a total of $25,000.00, of up to $500.00 per day for each violation of a law, rule, regulation, or formal order related to the initial or ongoing licensing requirement of any program;
  (7) Impose a late fee of up to $250.00 for failure of an early care and education program to pay the annual fee required by subsection (k) of Code Section 20-1A-10 within 30 days of the due date as established by the department; or
  (8) Limit or restrict any license as the department deems necessary for the protection of the public or enforcement of any law, rule, regulation, or formal order related to the licensing requirements of any program, including, but not limited to, restricting some or all services of or admissions into a program for a time certain. In taking any of the actions enumerated in this subsection, the department shall consider the seriousness of the violation, including the circumstances, extent, and gravity of the prohibited acts, and the hazard or potential hazard created to the health or safety of the public.
(d) The department shall deny a license or registration or otherwise restrict a license or registration for any applicant who has had a license or registration denied, revoked, or suspended within one year of the date of an application or who has transferred ownership or governing authority of a program subject to regulation by the department within one year of the date of a new application when such transfer was made in order to avert denial, revocation, or suspension of such license or registration.
(e) With regard to any contested case instituted by the department pursuant to this Code section or other provisions of law which may now or hereafter authorize remedial or disciplinary grounds and action, the department may, in its discretion, dispose of the action so instituted by settlement. In such cases, all parties, successors, and assigns to any settlement agreement shall be bound by the terms specified in such agreement and violation of such agreement thereof by any applicant or holder of a license shall constitute grounds for any action enumerated in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(f) The department shall have the authority to make public or private investigations or examinations inside or outside of this state to determine whether the provisions of this Code section or any other law, rule, regulation, or formal order relating to any licensing requirement of a program has been violated. Such investigations may be initiated at any time, in the discretion of the department, and may continue during the pendency of any action initiated by the department pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section.
(g) For the purpose of conducting any investigation, inspection, or survey, the department shall have the authority to require the production of any books, records, papers, or other information related to any licensing requirement of any program.
(h) Pursuant to the investigation, inspection, and enforcement powers given to the department by this Code section and other applicable laws, the department may assess against a program reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by the department pursuant to any administrative or legal action required by the failure of the program to fully comply with the provisions of any law, rule, regulation, or formal order related to the initial or continued licensing. Assessments shall not include attorney's fees and expenses of litigation, shall not exceed other actual expenses, and shall only be assessed if such investigations, inspections, or enforcement actions result in adverse findings, as finally determined by the department, pursuant to administrative or legal action.
(i) For any action taken or any proceeding held under this Code section or under color of law, except for gross negligence or willful or wanton misconduct, the department, when acting in its official capacity, shall be immune from liability and suit to the same extent that any judge of any court of general jurisdiction in this state would be immune.
(j) In an administrative or legal proceeding under this Code section, a person or entity claiming an exemption or an exception granted by law, rule, regulation, or formal order has the burden of proving this exemption or exception.
(k) This Code section and all actions resulting from its provisions shall be administered in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(l) The provisions of this Code section shall be supplemental to and shall not operate to prohibit the department from acting pursuant to those provisions of law which may now or hereafter authorize remedial or disciplinary grounds and action for the department. In cases where those other provisions of law so authorize other disciplinary grounds and actions, but this Code section limits such grounds or actions, those other provisions shall apply.
(m) The board is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to implement the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 163,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2016.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 20, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-46.1, eff. 5/12/2010.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 565, § 1, eff. 10/1/2004.
