# § 20-1A-13. Emergency placement of monitors; emergency closure upon minor's death; requirements and procedures

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Emergency order" or "order" means a written directive by the commissioner or the commissioner's designee placing a monitor in a program or providing notice of intended emergency closure of a program.
  (2) "Monitor" means a person designated by the department to remain on site in a program as an agent of the department, observing conditions.
  (3) "Preliminary hearing" means a hearing held by the Office of State Administrative Hearings as soon as possible after the order is entered at the request of a program which has been affected by an emergency order placing a monitor in the program or upon notice of intended emergency closure of a program in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
  (4) "Program" means a child care learning center or a family child care learning home.
(b)
  (1) The commissioner or his or her designee may order the emergency placement of a monitor or monitors in a program upon a finding that rules and regulations of the department are being violated which threaten the health, safety, or welfare of children in the care of the program and when one or more of the following conditions are present:
    (A) The program is operating without a license, commission, or permit;
    (B) The department has denied application for license, commission, or permit or has initiated action to revoke the existing license, commission, or permit of the program; or
    (C) Children are suspected of being subjected to injury or life-threatening situations or the health or safety of a child or children is in danger.
  (2) A monitor may be placed in a program for no more than ten consecutive calendar days, during which time the monitor shall observe conditions and regulatory compliance with any recommended remedial action of the department. Upon expiration of the ten-day period, should the conditions warrant, the initial ten-day period may be extended for an additional ten-day period. The monitor shall report to the department. The monitor shall not assume any administrative or child-caring responsibility within the program, nor shall the monitor be liable for any actions of the program. The salary and related costs and travel and subsistence allowance as defined by department policy of placing a monitor in a program shall be reimbursed to the department by the program, unless the order placing the monitor is determined to be invalid in a contested case or by final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction, in which event the cost shall be paid by the department.
(c)
  (1) The commissioner or his or her designee may issue an order providing notice of intended emergency closure of a program:
    (A) Upon the death of a minor at such program, unless such death was medically anticipated or no serious rule violations related to the death by the program were determined by the department; or
    (B) Where a child's safety or welfare is in imminent danger.
  (2) If a preliminary hearing is not requested pursuant to subsection (f) of this Code section, the commissioner shall immediately close such program for a period of not more than 21 days. If a preliminary hearing is requested pursuant to subsection (f) of this Code section, the commissioner may place a monitor in the program until the Office of State Administrative Hearings issues a decision, which shall be considered the final decision of the agency, on the emergency closure. If the Office of State Administrative Hearings finds that the emergency closure is warranted, the commissioner shall immediately close such program for a period of not more than 21 days. If the Office of State Administrative Hearings finds that the emergency closure is not warranted, the commissioner shall not order the emergency closure of the program, but may continue investigating the incident and may place a monitor in the program in accordance with this Code section.
  (3) Upon a closure, the program shall be required to immediately notify the parent or guardian of each child enrolled in the program. Upon a closure, the commissioner or his or her designee shall immediately conduct a review into the circumstances of the minor's death or the circumstances where a child's safety or welfare is in imminent danger. If the commissioner determines that the program where such minor's death occurred or where imminent danger exists fails to meet the specifications and requirements of this chapter, the commissioner shall immediately revoke such program's license, commission, or permit. The program shall have the right to appeal the revocation in accordance with subsection (o) of Code Section 20-1A-10; provided, however, that the program shall remain closed until the appeal decision is issued. If the commissioner determines that the administration or conditions of the program were not the cause of the minor's death or that a child's safety and welfare is not in imminent danger or if the department has not issued a revocation notice within the initial closure period, the commissioner shall immediately reopen the program for its continued operation.
(d) An emergency order shall contain the following:
  (1) The scope of the order;
  (2) The reasons for the issuance of the order;
  (3) The effective date of the order if other than the date the order is issued;
  (4) The person to whom questions regarding the order are to be addressed; and
  (5) Notice of the right to a preliminary hearing.
(e) Unless otherwise provided in the order, an emergency order shall become effective upon its service. Service of an emergency order may be made upon the owner of the facility, the director of the facility, or any other agent, employee, or person in charge of the facility at the time of the service of the order.
(f) A request for a preliminary hearing shall be made in writing within 48 hours from the time of service, excepting weekends. The request shall be made to the representative of the department designated in the order and may be made in person, by facsimile, by e-mail, or by any other means designated in the order.
(g) Upon receipt of a request for a preliminary hearing, the department shall immediately forward the request to the Office of State Administrative Hearings, which shall set and give notice of the date, time, and location of the preliminary hearing. The preliminary hearing shall be held as soon as possible after a request therefor but in no event later than 48 hours after such request, provided that a program may request that such hearing be held earlier and that in no event shall a hearing be held on a weekend or holiday.
(h) If a hearing is requested, the preliminary hearing shall consist of a review of all oral and written evidence introduced at the hearing and any arguments made. Hearsay shall be admissible in a preliminary hearing in determining the issues relevant to emergency closure of a program or the emergency placement of a monitor or monitors. A recording shall be made of the hearing.
(i) The Office of State Administrative Hearings shall, where practicable, issue an immediate oral order and shall, in all instances, issue a written order within two business days after the close of the hearing.
(j) Pending final appeal of the validity of any emergency order issued as provided in this Code section, such emergency order shall remain in full effect until vacated or rescinded by the commissioner or the commissioner's designee.
(k) The department is not precluded from other actions permitted by other laws or regulations during the time an emergency order is in force.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 561,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 163,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2016.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 190,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 20, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 565, § 1, eff. 10/1/2004.
