# § 33-45-6. Annual revised disclosure statement; statement to be made available to all residents of facility; submission of other necessary information as determined by Commissioner

(a) Annually, on or before June 1, the provider shall file a revised disclosure statement and such other information and data showing its condition as of the last day of the preceding calendar year or fiscal year of the provider. If the department does not receive the required information on or before June 1, a late fee may be charged. The department may approve an extension of up to 30 days.
(b)
  (1) The provider shall also make the revised disclosure statement available to all the residents of the facility.
  (2) A provider shall also revise its disclosure statement and have the revised disclosure statement recorded at any other time if revision is necessary to prevent an otherwise current disclosure statement from containing a material misstatement of fact or omitting a material fact required to be stated therein. Only the most recently recorded disclosure statement, with respect to a facility, and in any event, only a disclosure statement dated within one year plus 120 days prior to the due date of the time of renewal of a certificate of authority required by this chapter, shall be considered current.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Code Section 33-45-9, the Commissioner may require a provider to submit such other information as he or she deems necessary to enforce this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 77,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2011.
