# § 33-45-13. Penalties for violation of chapter provisions; department authorized to take remedial action, including suspension and revocation of certificate of authority

(a) Any person who knowingly maintains, enters into, performs, or, as manager or officer or in any other administrative capacity, assists in entering into, maintaining, or performing any continuing care agreement subject to this chapter without a valid certificate of authority or renewal thereof, as contemplated by or provided in this chapter, or who otherwise violates any provision of this chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor. Each violation of this chapter constitutes a separate offense.
(b) In addition to the powers granted pursuant to Chapters 1 and 2 of this title, the department may bring an action to enjoin a violation, threatened violation, or continued violation of this chapter in the superior court of the county in which the violation occurred, is occurring, or is about to occur.
(c) If, after a period of 180 days, or such additional time as the department shall deem appropriate, the corrective action plan required by paragraph (1) of subsection (d) of Code Section 33-45-11 has been submitted and approved by the department and the department deems the facility or provider to be unable to achieve the necessary financial reserves or is not making substantial progress toward achieving the required financial reserves, the department shall be authorized to take immediate action against the facility or provider's certificate of authority, including suspension or revocation of the certificate of authority; provided, however, that before the Commissioner suspends or revokes a certificate of authority, the Commissioner shall conduct a hearing in accordance with Chapter 2 of this title.
(d) Any action brought by the department against a provider shall not abate by reason of a sale or other transfer of ownership of the facility used to provide care, which provider is a party to the action, except with the express written consent of the Commissioner.

## History

Redesignated and amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 77,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2011.
