# § 33-45-3. Certificate of authority required for operation of life plan communities

(a) Nothing in this title or chapter shall be deemed to authorize any provider to transact any insurance business other than that of continuing care insurance or limited continuing care insurance or otherwise to engage in any other type of insurance unless it is authorized under a certificate of authority issued by the department under this title. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to interfere with the jurisdiction of the Department of Community Health or any other regulatory body exercising authority over providers regulated by this chapter or real property law related to the purchase and sale of resident owned living units.
(b) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to modify or limit in any way:
  (1) Provisions of Article 3 of Chapter 6 of Title 31 and any rules and regulations promulgated by the Department of Community Health pursuant to such article relating to certificates of need for life plan communities or home health agencies, as such terms are defined in Code Section 31-6-2; or
  (2) Provisions of Chapter 7 of Title 31 relating to licensure or permit requirements and any rules and regulations promulgated by the Department of Community Health pursuant to such chapter, including, without limitation, licensure or permit requirements for nursing home care, assisted living care, personal care home services, home health services, and private home care services.
(c) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed so as to allow private home care services to be provided by any person or entity other than a licensed private home care provider.
(d) A provider of continuing care at home may contract with a licensed home health agency to provide home health services to a resident. In order to provide home health services directly, a provider of continuing care at home shall obtain a certificate of need for a home health agency, as such term is defined in Code Section 31-6-2, pursuant to the same criteria and rules as are applicable to freestanding home health agencies that are not components of life plan communities.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 303,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 79,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 555,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 77,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-43, eff. 7/1/2009.
