# § 33-20C-5. Printed directories; accuracy; application to standalone dental plans

(a) The insurer shall make available in print, upon request, the following provider directory information for the applicable network plan:
  (1) For healthcare professionals:
    (A) Name;
    (B) Contact information;
    (C) Participating office location or locations;
    (D) Specialty, if applicable;
    (E) Languages spoken other than English, if applicable; and
    (F) Whether accepting new patients;
  (2) For hospitals:
    (A) Hospital name;
    (B) Hospital type, such as acute, rehabilitation, children's, or cancer;
    (C) Participating hospital location and telephone number; and
    (D) Health benefit plan surprise bill rating; and
  (3) For facilities other than hospitals:
    (A) Facility name;
    (B) Facility type;
    (C) Types of services performed; and
    (D) Participating facility location or locations and telephone number.
(b) The insurer shall include a disclosure in the print directory that the information in subsection (a) of this Code section and included in the directory is accurate as of the date of printing and that covered persons or prospective covered persons should consult the insurer's electronic provider directory on its website or call a specified customer service telephone number to obtain current provider directory information.
(c) Paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall not apply to standalone dental plans.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 475,§ 3, eff. 11/1/2020.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 251,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 341,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
