# § 33-20C-7. Disclosure of health benefit plan surprise bill rating in advertisement; other disclosures; regulation; optional annual reporting

(a) Each insurer that advertises or designates any hospital as in-network shall be required to disclose the relevant health benefit plan surprise bill rating within such advertisement, notwithstanding the type or form of such advertisement.
(b) If a health benefit plan surprise bill rating is less than four checkmarks, each insurer advertising a hospital as in-network shall describe which qualified hospital based specialty group types are not contracted with such health benefit plan.
(c) The Commissioner may promulgate rules and regulations which require insurers to provide explanatory footnotes to each health benefit plan surprise bill rating in such special circumstances as the Commissioner may determine to be appropriate.
(d) If an insurer processes a claim on a covered person from an out-of-network qualified hospital based specialty group provider at out-of-network rates, such insurer shall update the relevant health benefit plan surprise bill rating within 30 days to reflect any necessary reduction in such rating.
(e) The Commissioner may submit an annual report to the House Committee on Insurance and the Senate Insurance and Labor Committee beginning January 1, 2022. Such report may include such aggregate data as the Commissioner determines beneficial to share with such committees.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 475,§ 4, eff. 11/1/2020.
