# § 15-6-50.2. The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia

(a) There is created a superior court clerks' council to be known as "The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia." The council shall be composed of the clerks of the superior courts of this state. The council is authorized to organize itself and to develop a constitution and bylaws.
(b) It shall be the purpose of the council to effectuate the constitutional and statutory responsibilities conferred upon it by law, to further the improvement of the superior courts and the administration of justice, to assist the superior court clerks throughout the state in the execution of their duties, and to promote and assist in the training of superior court clerks.
(c) Expenses of the administration of the council shall be paid from state funds appropriated for that purpose, from federal funds available to the council for that purpose, or from other appropriate sources.
(d) The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia shall be a legal entity and an agency of the State of Georgia; shall have perpetual existence; may contract; may own property; may accept funds, grants, and gifts from any public or private source for use in defraying the expenses of the council; may adopt and use an official seal; may establish a principal office; may employ such administrative or clerical personnel as may be necessary and appropriate to fulfill its necessary duties; shall establish, maintain, and revise the state-wide master jury list as provided in Chapter 12 of this title; shall distribute the county master jury list as provided in Chapter 12 of this title; and shall have other powers, privileges, and duties as may be reasonable and necessary for the proper fulfillment of its purposes and duties.
(e) Notwithstanding any other law, a member of the council shall not be ineligible to hold the office of clerk of a superior court by virtue of his or her position as a member of the council or its executive committee.
(f) The council shall issue uniform standards not inconsistent with the uniform standards promulgated by the Criminal Case Data Exchange Board pursuant to paragraph (5) of subsection (h) of Code Section 15-5-24.1. Such uniform standards shall be incorporated into the assistance and training provided to superior court clerks pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 88,§ 5, eff. 5/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 717,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 578,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 50,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2011.
