# § 15-6-82. Governor ordering investigation of clerk of court; suspension of clerk

(a) Whenever the Governor determines that an investigation of a clerk of superior court of this state should be made as a result of criminal charges, alleged misconduct in office, or alleged incapacity of the clerk of superior court to perform the functions of his or her office, the Governor shall appoint an investigative committee consisting of two clerks of superior court who are members of The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia and the Attorney General to conduct an investigation. Such clerks of superior court may be from any two counties in the state other than the county of the clerk of superior court under investigation. The members of any such committee shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for any expenses incurred in connection with an investigation. The funds necessary to conduct an investigation shall come from the funds appropriated to the executive branch of the state government.
(b) Any member of the committee shall be authorized to administer oaths to any witness before the committee. The committee shall make a report of its investigation to the Governor within 30 days from the date of the appointment of both clerk members by the Governor.
(c) If the committee recommends the suspension of the clerk of superior court, the Governor shall be authorized to suspend the clerk of superior court for a period of up to 60 days. In any case where a clerk of superior court has been suspended for 60 days, the Governor may extend the period of suspension for an additional 30 days. Upon such recommendation, the Governor shall also be authorized to request the district attorney of the county of the clerk's residence to bring a removal petition against the clerk in superior court based upon the evidence reported by the committee. After the filing of such petition, a clerk of superior court is subject to being removed from office by the judge of the court for any sufficient cause, including incapacity or misbehavior in office. The charges must be exhibited to the court in writing, and the facts tried by a jury. The clerk shall be entitled to a copy of the charges three days before trial. In the event that the Governor determines that further investigation should be made, the Governor may then order additional investigation by the committee, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, other law enforcement agencies of this state, or any special committee appointed by the Governor for such purpose. During any period of suspension, the clerk shall continue to hold office; however, the chief deputy clerk shall perform the duties of the clerk of superior court or, in the absence of a chief deputy clerk, an interim clerk shall be appointed as provided in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 15-6-53 to perform the duties of the clerk during the period of suspension.
(d) If the clerk of superior court is indicted for a felony, the provisions of Code Section 45-5-6 shall apply.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 599,§ I-1-19, eff. 7/1/2012.
