# § 15-6-76.1. Investing or depositing funds; depositing funds paid into court registry

(a) In counties where the clerk of the superior court exercised discretion to invest funds pursuant to Code Section 15-6-75 or to deposit funds in one or more interest-bearing accounts pursuant to Code Section 15-6-76, and such funds were invested or on deposit on January 1, 1993, the clerk may continue to invest such funds pursuant to Code Section 15-6-75 or deposit such funds pursuant to Code Section 15-6-76 until July 1, 1994. In such counties, clerks who do not elect to continue investing or depositing funds pursuant to such Code sections, or who cease depositing or investing such funds pursuant to such Code sections, shall be subject to the provisions of subsections (c) through (g) of this Code section.
(b) In counties where no funds were invested or on deposit pursuant to Code Section 15-6-75 or 15-6-76 on January 1, 1993, clerks shall be subject to the provisions of subsections (c) through (g) of this Code section, effective July 1, 1993.
(c) When funds are paid into the registry of the court, the clerk shall deposit such funds in one or more interest-bearing trust accounts in investments authorized by Code Section 36-80-3 or by Chapter 83 of Title 36.
(d) When funds have been paid into the registry of the court pursuant to a court order directing that such funds be deposited in an interest-bearing trust account for the benefit of one or more of the parties, the interest received from such funds after service charges or fees imposed by the bank or depository shall be paid to one or more of the parties as the order of the court directs.
(e) When funds have been paid into the registry of the court and the order of the court relating to such funds does not state that such funds shall be placed in an interest-bearing trust account for the benefit of one or more of the parties, the clerk shall deposit such funds in an interest-bearing trust account, and the financial institution in which such funds are deposited shall remit, after service charges or fees are deducted, the interest generated by said funds directly to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority by the last day of the month following the month in which such funds were received for distribution to the Georgia Public Defender Council for allotment to the circuit public defender offices. With each remittance, the financial institution shall send a statement showing the name of the court, the rate of interest applied, the average monthly balance in the account against which the interest rate is applied, the service charges or fees of the bank or other depository, and the net remittance. This subsection shall include, but not be limited to, cash supersedeas bonds for criminal appeal, other supersedeas bonds, and bonds or funds paid into the court registry in actions involving interpleader, condemnation, and requests for injunctive relief.
(f) The Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority shall prescribe uniform procedures and forms for the reporting and remittance of all funds reported to or remitted by the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority.
(g) Any interest earned on funds subject to this Code section or Code Section 15-7-49, 15-9-18, or 15-10-240 while in the custody of the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority shall be remitted to the Georgia Public Defender Council.
(h) In its discretion, the court may at any time amend its order to require that the funds be deposited into an interest-bearing account for the benefit of one or more of the parties to the action, and the clerk shall comply with such amended order.
(i) In counties where the service charges or fees of the bank or depository would exceed the interest received from funds subject to this Code section, the clerk shall be exempt from subsections (a) through (h) of this Code section. In such counties, the clerk shall send a written notice to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 74,§ 8-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 729,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 32, § 2, eff. 12/31/2003.
