# § 15-6-99. Re-creation of grantor and grantee indexes

(a) The Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority is authorized to re-create grantor and grantee indexes that exist prior to January 1, 1999, in each county for the purpose of providing information and history concerning real property records for the state-wide uniform automated information system provided for in Code Section 15-6-97. The number of prior year indexes to be re-created shall be determined by the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority in cooperation with the clerks of the superior courts who shall provide copies of such county indexes or access to copies of such indexes for re-creating such indexes. A copy of the re-created index shall be furnished to each county but shall not replace or supersede the original county index.
(b) Re-creation of such grantor and grantee indexes shall be accomplished by using only the existing index in each county and the information shown in such indexes. No other sources of information shall be reviewed.
(c) The re-created indexes shall be in the format and file structure as designed and adopted by the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority for the state-wide uniform automated information system. The re-created indexes shall contain only the information from the existing county indexes which is applicable to and complies with such format and file structure for the state-wide uniform automated information system.
(d) Re-creation of such indexes shall include conforming the indexing of grantor and grantee names, as determined by the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority, to be in a consistent and standard manner for the state-wide uniform automated information system. A conversion summary of such names being conformed on a county by county basis shall be maintained by the authority, and a copy of such summary shall be furnished for information purposes only to each county with the re-created county index.
(e) The original county indexes shall not be altered or changed in any manner or by any process as a result of the re-creation of any grantor and grantee index, and such re-created index shall be clearly and distinctly labeled to identify it separately from the original county index. Any re-created index shall not replace the original county index as such index was originally recorded by the clerk of the superior court for any point in time.
(f) A clerk of the superior court, the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority, or an authorized agent of the authority shall not suffer any liability as a result of the required cooperation authorized and provided for between the parties by this Code section.
