# § 15-6-97. State-wide uniform automated information system; additional powers and duties of Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority

(a) The Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority or its designated agent shall develop and implement a state-wide uniform automated information system for real and personal property records, excluding filings made pursuant to Article 9 of Title 11. In furtherance of development and implementation of the system, the authority shall have the ability to contract with the clerks of superior courts and any other parties that the authority deems necessary. The Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority shall have authority to implement rules and regulations necessary to develop and implement the system described in this Code section.
(b) The Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority shall have the following powers and duties in addition to those otherwise provided by law:
  (1) To provide for the collection of moneys;
  (2) To manage, control, and direct such funds and the expenditures made therefrom;
  (3) To distribute the moneys at the discretion of the authority in such manner and subject to such terms and limitations as the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority in its discretion shall determine will best further the public purpose of the authority; and
  (4) To exercise all other powers necessary for the development and implementation of the system provided for in this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 604,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 47,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 624,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 622, § 2, eff. 5/17/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 834, § 5, eff. 5/13/2002.
