# § 15-6-53. Appointment of clerk; actions by interim clerk; special elections

(a) In any county in which a chief deputy clerk has been appointed pursuant to Code Section 15-6-59, the chief deputy clerk shall become the clerk of superior court if the clerk of superior court dies, resigns, is removed from office pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-2-1, or otherwise vacates office. The chief deputy clerk shall hold office for the unexpired term of his or her predecessor, provided that more than two years of the clerk's term of office have expired at the time the clerk vacates office. If more than two years of the clerk's term of office have not expired at the time the clerk vacates office, a special election shall be held, as provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-540, at least 120 days but no later than 365 days after the date the vacancy occurred. The person elected on such date shall hold office for the unexpired term of his or her predecessor. The returns of the election shall be made to the Governor, who shall immediately commission the person elected clerk.
(b)
  (1) In any county in which a chief deputy clerk has not been appointed pursuant to Code Section 15-6-59, the probate judge shall immediately appoint a qualified person to serve as the interim clerk of superior court when the clerk vacates office for any reason. Such interim clerk shall serve in such capacity until the vacancy is filled pursuant to the provisions of this subsection; provided, however, that the interim clerk shall not serve more than one year. Any act done by the interim clerk during such period that the clerk could have done shall be valid.
  (2) When a vacancy is filled pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Code section and it is more than six months from the date when the clerk vacated office until the next general election is held, the election superintendent for the county shall call a special election to fill the vacancy, as provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-540, and such official shall give notice in one or more of the public newspapers of the county, if any, at the courthouse, and at three or more of the most public places of the county at least 30 days prior to the date of election. Such special election shall be held at least 120 days but no later than 365 days after the date the vacancy occurred. The person elected on such date shall hold office for the unexpired term of his or her predecessor. The returns of the election shall be made to the Governor, who shall immediately commission the person elected clerk.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 599,§ I-1-4, eff. 7/1/2012.
