# § 15-6-1. Composition of judicial circuits

(1) Alapaha Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Atkinson, Berrien, Clinch, Cook, and Lanier;
(2) Alcovy Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Newton and Walton;
(2.1) Appalachian Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Fannin, Gilmer, and Pickens;
(3) Atlanta Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Fulton;
(4) Atlantic Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Bryan, Liberty, McIntosh, Tattnall, Evans, and Long;
(5) Augusta Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Burke and Richmond;
(5.1) Bell-Forsyth Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Forsyth;
(6) Blue Ridge Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Cherokee;
(7) Brunswick Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Appling, Camden, Glynn, Wayne, and Jeff Davis;
(8) Chattahoochee Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Chattahoochee, Harris, Marion, Muscogee, Talbot, and Taylor;
(9) Cherokee Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Bartow and Gordon;
(10) Clayton Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Clayton;
(11) Cobb Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Cobb;
(11.1) Columbia Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Columbia;
(12) Conasauga Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Murray and Whitfield;
(13) Cordele Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Dooly, Wilcox, Crisp, and Ben Hill;
(14) Coweta Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Coweta, Meriwether, and Troup;
(14.1) DeKalb Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of DeKalb. The judges of the DeKalb Judicial Circuit, when the business of the circuit does not require their attention, may aid in the disposition of the business of the Atlanta Judicial Circuit;
(15) Dougherty Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Dougherty;
(15.1) Douglas Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Douglas;
(16) Dublin Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Laurens, Johnson, Twiggs, and Treutlen;
(17) Eastern Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Chatham;
(17.1) Enotah Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Towns, Union, Lumpkin, and White;
(18) Flint Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Henry;
(19) Griffin Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Spalding, Pike, Upson, and Fayette;
(20) Gwinnett Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Gwinnett;
(21) Houston Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Houston;
(22) Lookout Mountain Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Catoosa, Dade, Chattooga, and Walker;
(23) Macon Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Bibb, Crawford, and Peach;
(24) Middle Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Emanuel, Jefferson, Washington, Toombs, and Candler;
(25) Mountain Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Banks, Habersham, Rabun, and Stephens;
(26) Northeastern Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Hall and Dawson;
(27) Northern Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Elbert, Hart, Madison, Oglethorpe, and Franklin;
(28) Ocmulgee Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Baldwin, Greene, Jasper, Jones, Morgan, Putnam, Wilkinson, and Hancock;
(29) Oconee Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Dodge, Montgomery, Pulaski, Telfair, Bleckley, and Wheeler;
(30) Ogeechee Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Bulloch, Effingham, Jenkins, and Screven;
(31) Pataula Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Clay, Early, Miller, Quitman, Randolph, Terrell, and Seminole;
(31.1) Paulding Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Paulding;
(32) Piedmont Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Barrow and Jackson;
(32.1) Rockdale Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Rockdale;
(33) Rome Judicial Circuit, composed of the County of Floyd;
(34) South Georgia Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Baker, Calhoun, Decatur, Grady, and Mitchell;
(35) Southern Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Brooks, Colquitt, Echols, Lowndes, and Thomas;
(36) Southwestern Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Lee, Macon, Schley, Stewart, Sumter, and Webster;
(37) Reserved;
(38) Tallapoosa Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Haralson and Polk;
(39) Tifton Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Tift, Irwin, Worth, and Turner;
(40) Toombs Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Glascock, Lincoln, McDuffie, Taliaferro, Warren, and Wilkes;
(40.1) Towaliga Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Butts, Monroe, and Lamar;
(41) Waycross Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Pierce, Coffee, Charlton, Ware, Bacon, and Brantley; and
(41.1) West Georgia Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Carroll and Heard; and
(42) Western Judicial Circuit, composed of the Counties of Clarke and Oconee.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 615,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 607,§ 2-1, eff. 1/1/2025.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 585,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2025.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 7,§ 4-1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 461, § 3-1, eff. 7/1/2002
