# § 15-6-66. Grantor-grantee index

(a) The clerk of superior court shall provide at the expense of each county a suitable duplex index book, or a series of books, or a card index, or a microfilm record, an electronic data base, or an electronic, computer-based document management system, or any combination of one or more of such systems, in which shall be indexed the name of the grantor and grantee of every instrument recorded pursuant to subparagraph (a)(4)(C) of Code Section 15-6-61. Such index shall include the character of the instrument, the book or location of the record, and the date of filing.
(b) The name of the grantor listed in the index shall be the name of the owner of the title which such instrument purports to convey or affect, whether the instrument was executed by the owner or by some other person, firm, or corporation on behalf of such owner, and whether or not such owner is deceased.
(c) The clerk of the superior court shall employ the methods provided for in paragraph (15) of subsection (a) of Code Section 15-6-61 in the creation, management, transmission, printing, and revision of the indexes provided for in this Code section. Compliance with such methods and with the rules and regulations relating to indexing established by the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority shall not expose the clerk of the superior court to new or additional liability relating to such indexes.
(d) This Code section shall not apply to transactions covered by Article 9 of Title 11.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 599,§ I-1-12, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 15, eff. 5/13/2004.
