# § 15-6-34. [Effective Until 7/1/2025] Creation of The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia; composition; purpose; expenses; acceptance and publication of uniform standards

(a) There is created a superior court judges' council to be known as "The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia." The council shall be composed of the judges, senior judges, and judges emeriti of the superior courts of this state. The council is authorized to organize itself and to develop a constitution and bylaws. The officers of said council shall consist of a president, a president-elect, a secretary-treasurer, and an executive committee composed of the administrative judges of the ten judicial administrative districts.
(b) It shall be the purpose of The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia to effectuate the constitutional and statutory responsibilities conferred upon it by law and to further the improvement of the superior courts and the administration of justice.
(c) Expenses of the administration of the council shall be paid from state funds appropriated for that purpose, from federal funds available to the council for that purpose, or from other appropriate sources.
(d) The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia shall accept the submission of uniform standards promulgated by the Criminal Case Data Exchange Board pursuant to paragraph (5) of subsection (h) of Code Section 15-5-24.1 and submitted by the Judicial Council of Georgia. Training on and publication of such uniform standards among the council and the superior courts of this state shall be to further improvement of the superior courts as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 88,§ 4, eff. 5/1/2023.
This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
