# § 15-6-74. Preservation of newspapers containing advertisements

(a) The clerk of superior court is required to procure and preserve for public inspection a complete file of all newspaper issues in which legal advertisements are published.
(b) The issues of the newspapers so preserved shall be bound, microfilmed, photographed, or digitally imaged in a format approved by the clerk and such newspapers, microfilm, photographs, or copies thereof shall be maintained and made available to the public for a period of not less than 50 years, after which time the newspapers, microfilm, photographs, or copies thereof shall be preserved for historical purposes in electronic or micrographic format.
(c) The clerk of superior court is authorized to enter into an agreement with either the judge of the probate court or the sheriff of the county, or both, relative to the binding, retention, microfilming, photographing, or digital imaging of the newspapers and their preservation and retention, in which event it shall be necessary that only one set of newspapers or copies thereof shall be retained in the county courthouse. Such set of newspapers or copies thereof shall include copies of the newspaper issues in which the clerk's advertisements appear and the newspaper issues in which the advertisements which the judge of the probate court or the sheriff, or both, are required to preserve and retain appear. The agreement shall specify the person who shall maintain and preserve the newspapers, microfilm, photographs, or digital copies.
(d) Upon the request of a clerk of superior court, any journal or newspaper declared, made, or maintained as the official organ of any county for the publication of sheriff's sales, citations of probate court judges, or any other advertising commonly known in terms of "official or legal advertising" shall provide to the clerk of superior court copies of such journal or newspaper containing legal advertisements, in digital format, as required by the clerk, when the clerk shall be required to comply with provisions of subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section. The copies shall be provided to the clerk, the judge of the probate court, and the sheriff by January 31 of the year following the year in which the newspaper served as the official legal organ of the county. The ability of a journal or newspaper to provide copies digitally or electronically may be a qualification by the clerk of superior court, the probate judge, and the sheriff in designating a journal or newspaper as the official legal organ of the county.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 599,§ I-1-16, eff. 7/1/2012.
