# § 15-6-60.1. Location of retained records; request for access to records; contracting for retention; online access

(a) As the county constitutional officer elected by citizens of his or her county to protect and preserve their court and land records, the clerk of superior court is the sole custodian of all original filed records that the clerk is required by law to retain in his or her office or permitted to store and archive in another location as provided by Code Section 15-6-86.
(b) Regardless of the methodology, system, or location used by the clerk of superior court for filing, recording, archiving, and storing records, any request for access to or copies of records, including requests made pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 for access to or copies of any record filed, recorded, or retained by a clerk of superior court, shall be made to the clerk of superior court.
(c) The clerk of superior court may contract with any person or entity or any governmental department, agency, authority, or entity for the purpose of archiving or storing electronic records of the clerk's office. When the clerk executes a contract for such purpose, such service provider shall not provide access to or copies of any records without the express written approval of the clerk of superior court.
(d) Any person or entity or any governmental department, agency, authority, or entity that provides storage or archiving services for records for which the clerk of superior court is custodian shall relinquish possession of all such records and any copies thereof and return such records and copies to the clerk upon request of the clerk. This subsection shall not apply to records provided by the clerk of the superior court to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority pursuant to laws requiring transmittal of records of the clerk's office to such authority.
(e) Records that the clerk of superior court is required by law or rules and regulations to provide to other governmental departments, agencies, authorities, and entities to enable such departments, agencies, authorities, and entities to perform their duties or to support the functions assigned to such departments, agencies, authorities, and entities shall not be used for any purpose other than the performance of such duties or functions.
(f) Records provided by the clerk of superior court to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority shall be used by the authority only for the performance of its statutory duties, including providing online access to such records.
(g) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require or otherwise affect the appropriation of public funds by a local governing authority to a clerk of superior court.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 181,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
