# § 15-6-29. Salary of judges

(a) The annual salary of the judges of the superior courts shall be as provided in Code Section 45-7-4 and may be as provided in Code Section 15-6-29.1. The annual salary provided by Code Section 45-7-4 shall be paid by The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia in 12 equal monthly installments.
(b) The annual salary shall be the total compensation to be paid by the state to the superior court judges and shall be in lieu of any and all other amounts to be paid from The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia, except as provided in Code Sections 15-6-29.1, 15-6-30, and 15-6-32.
(c) When a new superior court judgeship is created by law for any judicial circuit, the new superior court judge shall upon taking office become entitled to and shall receive from the county or counties comprising the circuit the same county salary supplement, if any, then in effect for the other judge or judges of the judicial circuit. Such salary supplement for such new judge shall be authorized by this subsection and no other legislation or local legislation shall be required in order to authorize such salary supplement, but nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit the enactment of local legislation relating to such salary supplements. A publication of notice of intention to introduce local legislation as provided for in Code Section 28-1-14 shall be required for any local legislation granting, changing the amount of, or removing a salary supplement; but no publication of notice of intention shall be required for a bill creating one or more new superior court judgeships.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 138,§ 1-3, eff. only if funds are appropriated for purposes of Part I of this Act in an appropriations Act enacted at the 2015 regular session of the General Assembly.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 564,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2008.
