# § 43-18-41. Qualifications of embalmer or funeral director applicants

(a) Each applicant for a license as either an embalmer or a funeral director shall:
  (1) Be at least 18 years of age;
  (2) Be of good moral character; and
  (3) Have graduated from a high school or have earned a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) certificate.
(b) In addition to the qualifications set out in subsection (a) of this Code section, an applicant for an embalmer's license shall:
  (1) Have graduated from a program at an accredited college of funeral service or such other college as provided by board rule; and
  (2) Have completed a minimum of 3,120 hours, pursuant to rules and regulations of the board, of service as an apprentice as provided in Code Sections 43-18-50 through 43-18-54.
(c) In addition to the qualifications set out in subsection (a) of this Code section, an applicant for a funeral director's license shall have, prior to the issuance of said license, a valid embalmer's license; shall furnish an affidavit which lists the names of the 50 funerals at which the apprentice assisted as provided in Code Section 43-18-50; and, effective January 1, 1991, must pass an examination approved by the board which tests knowledge of the law of this state relating to funeral directors.
(d) An individual who has met the educational requirement specified in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be eligible to take the section of the examination for embalmer relating directly to scholastic training without waiting until such individual meets the additional requirements for licensure specified in paragraph (2) of said subsection; provided, however, that such individual must submit a proper application and pay the required fees as determined by the board. An applicant for licensure as an embalmer who shall have successfully completed the section of the examination for embalmer relating directly to scholastic training shall have no status as an embalmer until such applicant meets all other requirements for licensure as outlined in this article and has received a license as an embalmer from the board.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 726,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 22, eff. 5/20/2010.
