# § 43-18-50. Application for funeral service apprenticeship; period of apprenticeship

(a) Every person desiring to serve as an apprentice shall make application as a funeral service apprentice to the board upon a form provided by the board. The applicant must be at least 18 years of age and have either graduated from high school or have a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) certificate. The apprenticeship shall be served at an approved establishment and under the direct supervision of a funeral director, embalmer, or both. The application must be verified by oath of applicant and be accompanied by a fee to be established by the board. The application shall be submitted to the board and may be accepted or rejected by a majority of the board.
(b) An apprenticeship shall be approved for a specific establishment and under a specific supervising funeral director, embalmer, or both. Any change in establishment or supervising funeral director, embalmer, or both shall terminate that apprenticeship and shall require submission of a new application.
(c) The total period of apprenticeship shall be 3,120 hours and must be served in a minimum of 18 months, but the minimum period shall be in addition to the time required to graduate from a college of funeral service or other college pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 43-18-41. An apprentice shall be authorized to earn apprenticeship hours in an amount to be determined by the board while attending a postgraduate school or a program at an accredited college of funeral service or other college approved by the board.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 726,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 637,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2012.
