# § 43-18-72. Crematories to be licensed; equipment, facilities, and personnel; application; reports; limitation of single body in cremation device

(a)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or association to operate a crematory without first obtaining a separate license for such purpose from the board in accordance with this article. The crematory must be at a specific address or location and must meet the following requirements and have the following minimum equipment, facilities, and personnel:
    (A) A room with seating for a minimum of 30 people in which funeral services may be conducted;
    (B) A display room containing an adequate supply of urns;
    (C) Rolling stock consisting of at least one operable motor hearse either owned or leased by said firm with current Georgia registration;
    (D) At least one operable cremation device;
    (E) At least one operable processing station for grinding of cremated remains;
    (F) At least one church truck; and
    (G) Not be located within 1,000 feet of a residential subdivision platted and recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of a county in which such residential subdivision is located.
  (2)
    (A) The provisions of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (F) of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply to crematories which provide cremation services only to other funeral establishments.
    (B) The provision of paragraph (G) of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall only apply to the issuance or renewal of any license on or after July 1, 2009, for any stand-alone crematory that was not in operation as of July 1, 2009. For purposes of this subparagraph, the term "stand-alone crematory" shall mean a crematory that is not located on or adjacent to a tract or parcel of land which contains a funeral establishment.
(b) The board may adopt and enforce such rules and regulations as may be reasonable and necessary to provide for the sanitary disposal of dead human bodies and prevent the spread of disease and to protect the health, safety, and welfare of the people of this state. Such rules and regulations may include inspections of any retort by the manufacturer or other authorized crematory repair company once every five years to ensure proper operations.
(c) Application for licensure of a crematory shall be made upon a form approved by the board and shall be accompanied by an application fee. No license shall be issued unless the facility meets all the requirements set forth by the board.
(d) The board shall adopt rules requiring each crematory to submit periodic reports to the board in a standard form which include the names of persons cremated and the types of containers used.
(e) No more than one dead human body shall be placed in a cremation device at one time unless written permission has been received from the person possessing legal responsibility for the disposition of the dead human body.
(f) Nothing in this article shall require a funeral establishment for which a valid license to operate is in effect on May 9, 2002, to have a separate license for a crematory until on and after the renewal date of such license to operate a funeral establishment which first occurs after May 9, 2002, but such establishment must comply with all the minimum equipment and facilities requirements and all other statutes, rules, and regulations relating to crematories.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 176,§ 3, eff. 5/4/2021.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 68,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 781, § 5, eff. 5/9/2002.
