# § 43-18-80. Authorizing agent; statement specifying disposition of cremated remains; shipment of remains

(a) For the purposes of this Code section, "authorizing agent" means a person legally entitled to authorize the cremation of human remains.
(b) The authorizing agent shall provide to the funeral establishment in which the cremation arrangements are made a signed statement specifying the ultimate disposition of the cremated remains, if known. A copy of this statement shall be retained by the funeral establishment offering or conducting the cremation.
(c) Cremated remains shall be shipped only by a method that has an internal tracking system available and that provides a receipt signed by the person accepting delivery.
(d) The authorizing agent shall be responsible for the disposition of the cremated remains. If, after 60 days from the date of cremation, the authorizing agent or his or her representative has not specified the ultimate disposition or claimed the cremated remains, the funeral establishment or entity in possession of the cremated remains shall send a notification to the authorizing agent notifying him or her that, pursuant to this subsection, failure to respond to such notification and specify the final disposition of the cremains within 30 days of the transmission of such notice shall authorize the funeral establishment to make arrangements for the disposition of the cremains. If, after 30 days, the funeral establishment or entity in possession of the cremated remains has not received instructions from the authorizing agent describing a specific method of disposing of the cremains, the funeral establishment or entity in possession of the cremains shall be authorized to dispose of the cremated remains in a dignified and humane manner by entombing such cremains in a crypt or underground in accordance with local and state law or by storage in the funeral establishment. The final resting place of the cremains shall be clearly marked and recorded by the funeral establishment entombing the cremains. Any costs or fees incurred to entomb, inter, or disinter the cremains shall be the responsibility of the authorizing agent; provided, however, that such cost shall not exceed $100.00.

## History

Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 68,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2009.
