# § 37-3-100. Placement and transfer of patients generally

(a) The department may designate the state owned or state operated facility to which a patient is to be admitted under this chapter. The department may instead designate a private facility, approved under Code Section 37-3-6, to which the patient is to be admitted, if the department has obtained the prior agreement of the private facility and of the patient or his representatives.
(b) A patient hospitalized in a state owned or state operated facility under this chapter may apply for transfer at his own expense to a private facility approved under Code Section 37-3-6 if he is able to pay for treatment at such private facility. If the private facility agrees to accept the patient, the department shall transfer the patient to that facility.
(c) If a private facility requests the department to take custody of a patient who has been hospitalized therein under this chapter and if the patient meets the criteria for admission under this chapter, then the department shall accept the patient and designate the state owned or state operated facility to which the patient shall be admitted.
(d) When the needs of the patient or efficient utilization of any facility so requires, a patient may be transferred from one facility to another. At the time of any such transfer, notice shall be given in writing to the patient and to his representatives and the patient shall be advised in writing of the reasons for his transfer. A voluntary patient may be transferred only with his consent.
(e) A patient hospitalized in a private facility, approved under Code Section 37-3-6, or that patient's representative may request that facility to transfer the patient to a state owned or operated facility. That private facility shall then request the department to take custody of the patient. If the patient meets the criteria for admission under this chapter, then the private facility shall transfer the patient and the department shall accept the patient and designate the state owned or operated facility to which the patient shall be admitted.
