# § 37-3-101. Transportation of patients generally

(a) The governing authority of the county where the patient is found or located shall arrange for initial emergency transport of a patient to an emergency receiving facility. Except as otherwise authorized under subsection (b) of this Code section, the governing authority of the county of the patient's residence shall arrange for all required transportation for mental health purposes subsequent to the initial transport. The type of vehicle employed shall be in the discretion of the governing authority of the county, provided that, whenever possible, marked vehicles normally used for the transportation of criminals or those accused of crimes shall not be used for the transportation of patients. The court shall, upon the request of the community mental health center, order the sheriff to transport the patient in such manner as the patient's condition demands. At any time the community mental health center is satisfied that the patient can be transported safely by family members or friends, such private transportation shall be encouraged and authorized. In nonemergency situations, no female patient shall be transported at any time without another female in attendance who is not a patient, unless such female patient is accompanied by her husband, father, adult brother, or adult son.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section, when a patient is under the care of a facility, the facility shall have the discretion to determine the type of vehicle to safely transport the patient and to arrange for such transportation without the need to obtain the prior approval of the governing authority of the county of the patient's residence, the court, or the community mental health center. This subsection shall not prevent the facility from requesting and receiving transportation services from the governing authority of the county of the patient's residence and shall not relieve the county sheriff of the duty of providing transportation. Persons providing transportation are authorized to transport a patient from a sending facility to a receiving facility but shall not release the patient under any circumstances except into the custody of the receiving facility. The use of physical restraints to ensure the safe transport of the patient shall comply with the requirements of Code Section 37-3-165. When transportation is not provided by the county sheriff, the expense of such transportation shall not be billed to the county governing authority but may be billed to the patient and, unless agreed to in writing by the facility, shall not be billed to or considered an obligation of the facility.
(c) Notwithstanding subsections (a) or (b) of this Code section, for initial transports to an emergency receiving facility initiated by a peace officer pursuant to Code Section 37-3-42, the emergency receiving facility shall coordinate all subsequent transports with the law enforcement agency employing such peace officer or a qualified private nonemergency transport provider or ambulance service.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 587,§ 3-4, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 894, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
