# § 37-3-164. "Representative," "substantial change" defined; consultation by patient's representative with treatment facility; notification of treatment change; guardian's consultation and notification rights

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Representative" means the representative designated by the patient or, in the absence of such designation, the person selected as a representative in the order of listing under subsection (b) of Code Section 37-3-147 but shall not mean the patient's legal guardian. At the time of designation or selection, such representative shall be notified of his right to notice and to consultation under this Code section. In order to exercise such rights, the representative shall notify the department on a form supplied by the department of his election to exercise such rights. Upon receiving such notice, the department shall thereafter provide that representative the notification and consultation required by this Code section until that representative notifies the department to the contrary. A patient need not be notified of his representative's rights under this Code section unless such representative has elected to exercise such rights.
  (2) "Substantial change" means a significant change including, but not limited to, the transfer within a facility of a patient from a unit primarily serving patients under 18 years of age to a unit primarily serving patients 18 years of age or over or the transfer of a patient from one facility to another but shall not include:
    (A) Changes in the routine day-to-day care of the patient;
    (B) Routine or periodic changes or adjustments in patient medication;
    (C) Changes relating to routine or necessary medical care needs of the patient;
    (D) Formulation of the patient's initial individualized service plan;
    (E) Changes specifically contemplated in a service plan regarding which the representative has already received notification; or
    (F) Discharge of the patient from the facility.
(b) At the time an adult patient's representative is designated or selected under Code Section 37-3-147 and at least every 12 months thereafter, such patient shall be notified that, unless objected to by the patient, such representative will be permitted to consult with the facility regarding the development of the patient's individualized service plan and the patient's treatment under such plan. The representative of a minor patient and the representative of an adult patient not objecting to consultation as authorized by this Code section may consult with the facility regarding the development of such patient's individualized service plan and the patient's treatment under such plan.
(c) At least seven days prior to any substantial change in the individualized service plan or treatment thereunder of an adult patient, the facility to which the patient has been admitted shall notify the patient that it will notify his representative of such change, unless the patient objects to such notification within 24 hours. A patient's representative shall be notified at least five days prior to any substantial change in such patient's individualized service plan or the treatment under such plan unless such patient is an adult and objects to such notification.
(d) In an emergency where the delay due to providing prior notification under subsection (c) of this Code section would create serious damage to the health of the patient, such a substantial change may be made without such prior notification. The patient's record shall specify the circumstances surrounding the emergency. Within 48 hours after the change, an adult patient shall be notified of his right to object within 24 hours to his representative's being notified of such change. A patient's representative shall be notified of such change within five days after such change occurs unless the patient is an adult and objects to such notification pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section.
(e) Notification to representatives under subsections (c) and (d) of this Code section may be made by telephone if the date and time of such notification is entered on the patient's clinical record and if such notification is followed within 15 days by written notification.
(f) A patient's legal guardian shall have the consultation and notification rights of a patient's representative under subsections (b) through (d) of this Code section regardless of whether the patient is a minor or whether the patient objects to such consultation or notification. A patient for whom a legal guardian has been appointed shall not be notified of any right to object under this Code section.
