# § 37-3-91. Discharge of persons meeting outpatient care criteria

(a) A person who is in the physical custody of a community mental health center, emergency receiving facility, or evaluating facility and who is determined by a physician or a psychologist, at or on behalf of that facility, to meet all of the outpatient treatment requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (c) of Code Section 37-3-90 shall be discharged from that facility as provided in this Code section pending a full and fair hearing or waiver thereof under Code Section 37-3-92. That discharge from a community mental health center shall occur within four hours after the patient is examined by a physician or a psychologist at or on behalf of that center. That discharge from an emergency receiving facility shall occur within 48 hours after the patient's admission thereto. That discharge from an evaluating facility shall occur no later than the expiration of the five-day evaluation period established under Code Section 37-3-64.
(b) Prior to a psychologist's discharging the patient under subsection (a) of this Code section, the treating psychologist shall obtain the concurrence of a physician. In addition, within the time period the facility is authorized to retain the patient, the facility at which or on behalf of which the patient was examined, which facility shall be the "referring facility" for purposes of this part, shall prepare an individualized service plan for the patient. This plan shall be prepared in consultation with the facility at which available outpatient treatment is to be provided the patient, which facility shall be the "receiving facility" for purposes of this part. The referring facility shall also make arrangements with the receiving facility to provide interim outpatient treatment, in accordance with the individualized service plan, to the patient pending the full and fair hearing or waiver thereof. Nothing in this Code section shall prevent a referring facility for a patient from also being the receiving facility for that patient.
(c) A patient for whom interim outpatient treatment is arranged pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall obtain that treatment or be subject to the provisions of Code Section 37-3-82. Written notice of the time, date, place, and address for that interim outpatient treatment shall be provided the patient prior to the patient's discharge, along with written notification that if the patient does not comply with the interim outpatient treatment or attend or waive a hearing, the time and date of which hearing will later be provided the patient, the patient may be involuntarily admitted for examination, treatment, or both. Notice of the discharge shall be provided to persons other than the patient in the same manner and under the same conditions as required by subsection (c) of Code Section 37-3-43 and subsection (d) of Code Section 37-3-64, and that notice shall also include a notice regarding the interim outpatient treatment and the consequences if the patient does not obtain the treatment or attend or waive the hearing.
(d) Within three days after a referring facility has discharged a patient pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, that facility shall transmit to the receiving facility a copy of the referring facility's examination report, individualized service plan, and such other necessary clinical information the referring facility may have regarding the patient. Within five days after receiving such report, plan, and information, the receiving facility shall petition the court of the county in which the patient is located for a full and fair hearing pursuant to Code Section 37-3-92 and include with the petition a copy of the examination report, the individualized service plan, and the address to which the patient was discharged by the referring facility.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section, a patient detained in a treatment facility pursuant to a certificate and petition under Code Section 37-3-81, whether or not that patient is subsequently determined by that facility during the time of such detention to meet all of the outpatient treatment requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (c) of Code Section 37-3-90, may not be discharged from that facility until a full and fair hearing is held pursuant to Code Section 37-3-81.1, which hearing may not be waived by any patient so determined to meet all of such outpatient treatment requirements.
