# § 37-3-4. Immunity from liability for actions taken in good faith compliance with admission and discharge provisions of chapter; immunity not applicable to failure to meet standard of care in provision of treatment

Any hospital or any physician, psychologist, peace officer, attorney, or health official, or any hospital official, agent, or other person employed by a private hospital or at a facility operated by the state, by a political subdivision of the state, or by a hospital authority created pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 7 of Title 31, who acts in good faith in compliance with the transport, admission, and discharge provisions of this chapter shall be immune from civil or criminal liability for his or her actions in connection with the transport of a patient to a physician or facility, the admission of a patient to a facility, or the discharge of a patient from a facility; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall be construed to relieve any hospital or any physician, psychologist, peace officer, attorney, or health official, or any hospital official, agent, or other person employed by a private hospital or at a facility operated by the state, by a political subdivision of the state, or by a hospital authority created pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 7 of Title 31, from liability for failing to meet the applicable standard of care in the provision of treatment to a patient. The immunity from civil liability provided in this Code section in connection with the transport of a patient to a physician or a facility shall apply only to injury or damages incurred by such patient or his or her personal representative.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 857,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 85,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
