# § 37-3-162. Patients' care and treatment rights

(a) Each patient in a facility and each person receiving services for mental illness shall receive care and treatment that is suited to his needs and is the least restrictive appropriate care and treatment. Such care and treatment shall be administered skillfully, safely, and humanely with full respect for the patient's dignity and personal integrity.
(b) Each patient shall have the right to participate in his care and treatment. The board shall issue regulations to ensure that each patient participates in his care and treatment to the maximum extent possible. Unless the disclosure to the patient is determined by the chief medical officer or the patient's treating physician or psychologist to be detrimental to the physical or mental health of the patient, and unless a notation to that effect is made a part of the patient's record, the patient shall have the right to reasonable access to review his medical file, to be told his diagnosis, to be consulted on the treatment recommendation, and to be fully informed concerning his medication, including its side effects and available treatment alternatives.
(c) It is the duty of the chief medical officer to ensure that each patient receives such medical attention as is suitable to his condition and that no treatment shall be given which is not recognized as standard psychiatric treatment, except upon the written consent of the patient or, if applicable, his guardian having capacity to give such consent. If such consent is given by someone other than the patient or such guardian, court approval must be obtained after a full and fair hearing.
(d) If a patient hospitalized under this chapter is able to secure the services of a private physician or psychologist, he shall be allowed to see his physician or psychologist at any reasonable time. The chief medical officer is authorized and directed to establish regulations designed to facilitate examination and treatment which a patient may request from such private physician or psychologist.
(e) Every patient admitted to a facility under this chapter shall be examined by the staff of the admitting facility as soon as possible after his admission.
