# § 20-3-235. Commission officers, employees, and support services; bonds; legal services

(1)Chief executive officer. The board of commissioners shall select and employ an executive director of the commission, or president, if designated by such title by the board of commissioners, who shall be the chief executive officer of the commission and who shall serve at the pleasure of the board of commissioners. The executive director may be employed on an annual basis by resolution adopted at a regular meeting of the board of commissioners or for a longer contractual period of time not to exceed three years. The executive director shall receive such salary and other compensation and benefits as determined and fixed by the board of commissioners. He shall cause to be filed with the commission a fidelity bond in the minimum sum of $100,000.00, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties under this part, and such additional bond coverage as the board of commissioners may direct; and the cost thereof shall be paid from funds available to the commission. The executive director shall provide for maintenance of accurate and permanent minutes and records of all proceedings and activities of the board of commissioners and the commission and have authority and responsibility to implement and carry out all administrative powers, duties, and functions of the commission in accordance with governing state and federal laws and rules, regulations, and policies prescribed by the board of commissioners. Unless otherwise prescribed by the board of commissioners, the executive director is authorized to select, employ, and terminate the employment of, and prescribe the duties of, all officers and employees of the commission in accordance with applicable provisions of law;
(2)Other officers. The board of commissioners shall designate an employee of the commission to serve as treasurer of the commission. The treasurer shall receive and disburse all funds made available to the commission by the General Assembly or otherwise in accordance with law and as may be directed by the board of commissioners. The treasurer shall cause to be filed with the commission a fidelity bond in such sum as the board of commissioners shall direct, conditioned upon the faithful performance of his duties under this part and the proper accounting of all funds coming into possession or control of the commission; and the cost thereof shall be paid from funds available to the commission. The board of commissioners is authorized to designate the executive director as treasurer. The board of commissioners shall also designate an employee of the commission to serve as secretary of the commission. The board of commissioners is further authorized to designate other budgeted personnel positions of the commission as officers of the commission and to ascribe to such positions such duties, responsibilities, and official titles as it may deem appropriate;
(3) Personnel. The commission is authorized to employ, on a full-time, part-time, or contractual basis, all officers, employees, professional personnel, agents, experts, consultants, and other personnel needed for the performance of its powers, duties, and functions under this part. Officers and employees of the commission are authorized to travel within and outside the state in connection with the performance of their duties as may be authorized by the board of commissioners;
(4)Fidelity bonds. All officers and employees of the commission and public commissioners shall be covered by a fidelity bond or bonds in such sum or sums and conditioned for such purpose or purposes as the board of commissioners shall determine, and the cost thereof shall be paid from funds available to the commission; and
(5)Legal services. Legal services shall be provided to the commission and the authority by the Attorney General as provided for by state law, or by private attorneys designated by the Attorney General, or, if authorized by the Attorney General, by private attorneys selected and retained or employed by the commission or the authority for the purposes authorized by the Attorney General. The commission is authorized to provide for paying from funds available to the commission or the authority all legal costs incurred, including, without limitation, attorneys' fees, court costs, and all other costs and expenses incurred incident to the retention of legal services and in respect of legal proceedings.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 399,§ 2-9, eff. 6/30/2024.
