# § 20-3-453. Eligibility of students

(1) Such person must be the child, either natural or adopted, of a law enforcement officer, firefighter, or prison guard who has been permanently disabled or killed in the line of duty or while performing the duties to which he was assigned in the normal course of employment. If such person is the adopted child of any such law enforcement officer, firefighter, or prison guard, such person must have been adopted and any final order of adoption issued prior to the date of the accident or event causing the death or permanent disability of such parent;
(2) Such person must have been a citizen of this state for a period of at least 12 months immediately prior to the date of registration in an approved school and must remain a citizen of the state while receiving funds under this subpart;
(3) The deceased or disabled law enforcement officer, firefighter, or prison guard parent of such person must have been an employee, either full-time or part-time, or an officer or official, whether elected or appointed, of this state or any county, municipality, department, board, bureau, branch, agency, commission, authority, or political subdivision of the state on the date of the accident or event from which death or permanent disability resulted; and
(4) Any person otherwise meeting the conditions of this subpart shall be eligible to receive a grant even though the accident or the event causing the death or disability of such person's parent occurred prior to July 1, 1980.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 787, § 4, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 952, § 11, eff. 7/1/2002.
