# § 20-3-151. Definitions

(a) As used in this article, the term:
  (1) "Authority" means the Georgia Education Authority (University), which was formerly known as the University System Building Authority. Such change in name of the authority shall in no way affect the identity of the authority or the rights, powers, privileges, or liabilities of the authority or any person under this article.
  (2) "Bonds" or "revenue bonds" means any bonds issued by the authority under this article, including refunding bonds.
  (3) "Cost of the project" means the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges; interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; cost of engineering; architectural and legal expenses; cost of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expense; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this article; the construction of any project, the placing of it in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under this article for such project.
  (4) "Project" means one or a combination of two or more of the following or any equipment therefor: housing accommodations; buildings and facilities intended for use as classrooms; laboratories; libraries; dormitories; and instructional, administrative, and recreational facilities for students, faculty, officers, and employees of any institution or unit under the control of the board of regents; and all structures, electric, gas, steam, and water utilities, and facilities of every kind and character deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of any unit which is a part of the university system.
  (5) "Unit" means any institution, school, academy, university, or experiment station at any particular location which forms a part of the university system.
(b) Any project or combination of projects shall be deemed "self-liquidating," if, in the judgment of the authority, the revenues, rents, or earnings to be derived by the authority therefrom will be sufficient to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing, and operating the project and to pay the principal and interest of revenue bonds which may be issued for the cost of such project, projects, or combination of projects.
