# § 20-3-633. Creation; board of directors; assignment to Department of Administrative Services

(a)
  (1) There is created the Georgia Higher Education Savings Plan, as a body corporate and politic and an instrumentality of the state, for purposes of establishing and maintaining the Georgia Higher Education Savings Plan Trust Fund and qualified tuition programs under Section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code as provided by this article. The plan shall be governed by a board of directors consisting of the Governor as chairperson, the Chancellor of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia, the commissioner of the Technical College System of Georgia, the executive director of the Georgia Student Finance Commission, the state auditor, the director of the Office of Planning and Budget, the state revenue commissioner, three directors who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Governor, and the state treasurer who shall act as administrative officer of the board. A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of the majority shall be the acts of the board.
  (2) Members of the board who are state officials or employees shall receive no compensation for their service on the board but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties as members of the board. Any members of the board who are not state officials or employees shall receive a daily expense allowance in the amount specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21 for each day such member is in attendance at a meeting of the board. Expense allowances and other costs authorized in this paragraph shall be paid from moneys in the trust fund.
(b) The board shall have the authority necessary or convenient to carry out the purposes and provisions of this article and the purposes and objectives of the trust fund, including, but not limited to, the authority to:
  (1) Have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure; bring and defend actions; make, execute, and deliver contracts, conveyances, and other instruments necessary or convenient to the exercise of its powers; and make and amend bylaws;
  (2) Adopt such rules and regulations as are necessary to implement this article, subject to applicable federal laws and regulations, including rules regarding transfers of funds between accounts established under savings trust agreements;
  (3) Contract for necessary goods and services, employ necessary personnel, and engage the services of consultants and other qualified persons and entities for administrative and technical assistance in carrying out the responsibilities of the trust fund under terms and conditions that the board deems reasonable; and any and all state departments or agencies are authorized to contract with the board, and the board is authorized to contract with such departments or agencies, upon such terms, for such consideration, and for such purposes as they deem advisable;
  (4) Solicit and accept gifts, including bequests or other testamentary gifts made by will, trust, or other disposition grants, loans, and other aids from any personal source or participate in any other way in any federal, state, or local governmental program in carrying out the purposes of this article;
  (5) Define the terms and conditions under which payments may be withdrawn or refunded from the trust fund established under this article and impose reasonable charges for a withdrawal or refund;
  (6) Impose reasonable time limits on the use of savings trust account distributions provided by the program;
  (7) Regulate the receipt of contributions or payments to the trust fund;
  (8) Require and collect fees and charges to cover the reasonable costs of administering savings trust accounts and impose penalties on an unqualified withdrawal of funds or for entering into a savings trust agreement on a fraudulent basis;
  (9) Procure insurance against any loss in connection with the property, assets, and activities of the trust fund or the plan;
  (10) Require that account owners of savings trust agreements verify in writing, before a person authorized to administer oaths, any requests for contract conversions, substitutions, transfers, cancellations, refund requests, or contract changes of any nature;
  (11) Solicit proposals and contract for the marketing of the program, provided that any materials produced by a marketing contractor for the purpose of marketing the program must be approved by the board before being made available to the public, unless otherwise directed by the board, establish a name for the program, and adopt and use marketing names, brands, logos, or other descriptions or representations of the program as may be deemed desirable or convenient for promoting, publicizing, or otherwise marketing the program within this state, outside this state, or both;
  (12) Delegate responsibility for administration of any program to a financial organization that the board determines is qualified;
  (13) Make all necessary and appropriate arrangements with colleges and universities or other entities in order to fulfill its obligations under savings trust agreements;
  (14) Establish other policies, procedures, and criteria and perform such other acts as necessary or appropriate to implement and administer this article; and
  (15) Authorize the state treasurer to carry out any or all of the powers and duties enumerated in this subsection for efficient and effective administration of the plan, program, and trust fund.
(c) The plan is assigned to the Department of Administrative Services for administrative purposes only.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 20, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 427,§ 4, eff. 5/6/2008.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 427,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2008.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 15, § 1, eff. 3/23/2001.
