# § 20-3-518.2. State Veterinary Education Board

(a) There shall be a State Veterinary Education Board which shall consist of:
  (1) The Commissioner of Agriculture or his or her designee;
  (2) The dean of the College of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Georgia or his or her designee;
  (3) The dean of the College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences of the University of Georgia or his or her designee;
  (4) A person actively engaged in the production of livestock in this state, to be appointed by the Governor, who shall serve for a term of four years and until his or her successor is qualified and appointed. The term of the initial member appointed under this paragraph shall commence on July 1, 2011; and
  (5) A person actively engaged in the private practice of veterinary medicine in this state, whose practice includes but is not necessarily limited to food animals, to be appointed by the State Board of Veterinary Medicine, who shall serve for a term of four years and until his or her successor is qualified and appointed. The term of the initial member appointed under this paragraph shall commence on July 1, 2011.
(b) Any vacancies on the board shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
(c) The board shall elect annually a chairperson and a vice chairperson to serve in the absence or inability of the chairperson. The board shall meet at least once each year at such time and place as may be fixed by the board. Special meetings shall be held upon the call of the chairperson. Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. No official action shall be taken by the board except upon the affirmative vote of at least three members of the board.
(d) The board shall be attached to the Department of Agriculture for administrative purposes only, pursuant to Code Section 50-4-3.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 80,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
