# § 20-3-395.3. Repayment schedule; default; service cancelable

(a) The authority shall by rule and regulation establish a repayment schedule or schedules for loans made under this subpart. Students shall be required to pay accrued interest annually on the loan or loans while attending a postsecondary institution except in cases of financial hardship. Students shall not be required to begin the repayment of the principal of such loans until the earliest occurrence of one of the following:
  (1) The student completes his or her course of study;
  (2) The student graduates from an eligible postsecondary institution;
  (3) One calendar year after the student's eligibility for a loan under this subpart ends in accordance with subsection (f) of Code Section 20-3-395.1; or
  (4) The student has not been enrolled in an eligible postsecondary institution for two academic quarters or two academic semesters.
(b) If the student defaults on the repayment of one or more loans under this subpart, the interest rate for such loan or loans shall be converted to the reasonable interest rate as defined in Code Section 20-3-395.
(c) Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, a student may service cancel a loan described in this subpart in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the authority if such student is employed by and agrees to teach in a public school in Georgia as a science, technology, engineering, or math teacher at the elementary, middle, or secondary level. For service repayment, the loan shall be repaid at a rate of one year of service for each academic year of study or its equivalent for which a loan is made to a student pursuant to this subpart.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 3,§ 10, eff. 3/15/2011.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 577,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
