# § 20-3-55. Payment of appropriations; bond of official receiving funds; use of fees by institutions

The Office of the State Treasurer is directed, out of any unexpended appropriation to the University of Georgia and any of its branches, to pay to the board of regents, at periods and times provided by law, such sums as may be requisitioned by the board and as may be approved by the Governor, upon warrants of the Governor, to and for the use of the University of Georgia or any of its branches or any or each of them, respectively. All money or sums of money payable under this Code section to the board shall be paid to an official elected or appointed by the board, which official shall, on or before entering upon the discharge of his duties, give good and solvent bond with a surety company qualified to do business in this state as surety for the faithful performance of his duties and faithful accounting for all moneys coming into his hands as such official, which bond shall be payable to the Governor and his successor in office. The premium for such bond may be paid out of funds lawfully coming into the hands of the board. The board, however, in its discretion, may authorize the local treasurer of any of the educational institutions to retain such matriculation and other fees as the board deems proper to facilitate the prompt payment of incidental expenses of said institution, strict account being made to the board as to all such receipts and expenditures.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
