# § 20-3-233. Creation of commission as successor to State Scholarship Commission; transfer of assets

(a) There is created within the executive branch of state government a commission to be known as the Georgia Student Finance Commission. The commission shall be an agency of the state and a budget unit thereof.
(b) The commission created by subsection (a) of this Code section shall be the successor to and a continuation of, without interruption, the previously existing Georgia State Scholarship Commission created by an Act approved March 12, 1965 (Ga. L. 1965, p. 210), as amended. The change of the name of the Georgia State Scholarship Commission to the Georgia Student Finance Commission and its continuation, as provided in this Code section, shall in no way affect any existing obligations, liabilities, or rights of the previously existing Georgia State Scholarship Commission. All such obligations, liabilities, and rights are transferred to, vested in, and assumed by the commission created by subsection (a) of this Code section. All existing contracts and agreements between any party and the previously existing Georgia State Scholarship Commission shall not be affected by this Code section but shall continue in full force and effect, without interruption, as contracts or agreements between such party and the commission created by subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Title to and ownership of all tangible personal property of the previously existing Georgia State Scholarship Commission are transferred to and vested in the commission created by subsection (a) of this Code section.
(d) Right, title, interests in, and ownership of all other assets of the previously existing Georgia State Scholarship Commission, including, without limitation, student loan accounts receivable, interest thereon, and contract rights relative thereto, income on hand derived therefrom, and choses in action in respect thereof, are transferred to and vested in the authority; and such assets and all proceeds hereafter derived therefrom shall be the property of and shall be used by the authority for educational loan and operating expense purposes as provided for in Subpart 3 of Part 3 of this article.
