# § 20-3-209. Exemption of authority and bonds from taxation

The creation of the authority and the carrying out of its corporate purposes is in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state and is a public purpose, and the authority will be performing an essential governmental function in the exercise of the power conferred upon it by this article; the state covenants with the holders of the bonds and any interest coupons appertaining thereto that the authority shall be required to pay no taxes or assessments imposed by the state or any of its counties, municipal corporations, political subdivisions, or taxing districts upon any of the property acquired or leased by it or under its jurisdiction, control, possession, or supervision or upon its activities in the operation or maintenance of the buildings erected or acquired by it or upon any fees, rentals, charges, or purchase price, received in installments or otherwise, pertaining to such buildings or upon other income received by the authority; that the bonds of the authority, their transfer, and the interest and income therefrom shall at all times be exempt from taxation within this state; and that the recording of any indenture or security deed by the authority shall be exempt from recording taxes and fees and from intangibles tax. The tax exemption provided in this Code section shall not include any exemption from sales or use tax on property purchased by the authority or for use by the authority, except that the authority shall be entitled to such exemption with respect to property for any particular project as is available to the participating institution for higher education pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter 8 of Title 48.

## History

Reenacted by 2024 Ga. Laws 399,§ 3-1, eff. 6/30/2024.
Repealed and reserved by 2019 Ga. Laws 296,§ 7-1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Part 7 of 2019 Ga. Laws 296, which repealed Article 6, relating to the Private Colleges and Universities Authority, was declared unconstitutional and its implementation was permanently enjoined by Private Colleges and Universities Authorities v. Kemp, No. 2019CV322341 (Superor Court of Fulton County, July 8, 2019)
