# § 20-3-499. Selection of REACH scholars

(a) REACH participating school systems shall select each student for the program in the spring of the student's seventh grade year or in the fall of his or her eighth grade year, for participation beginning in the eighth grade year. REACH participating school systems shall develop a rigorous application process to select REACH scholars, including but not limited to:
  (1) Identifying all students eligible for federal free or reduced price lunch by:
    (A) Completing the Application for Free and Reduced Price School Meals form from the Georgia Department of Education; or
    (B) Direct certification by meeting one of the following criteria:
      (i) Live in a family unit receiving SNAP (Food Stamp) benefits;
      (ii) Live in a family unit receiving TANF benefits;
      (iii) Identify as homeless;
      (iv) Identify as foster; or
      (v) Identify as migrant;
  (1.1) Identifying eligible students who are victims of human trafficking;
  (2) Nominating qualified students to apply. Nominations can be made by counselors, principals, superintendents, or any individual within the REACH participating school system who is able to identify students most in need of the REACH scholarship;
  (3) Requiring nominated students to complete the REACH student application, which includes an academic recommendation and a community recommendation;
  (4) Reviewing student packets, including the nomination form, proof of eligibility for federal free or reduced lunch or as a victim of human trafficking, citizenship and residency requirements, and grade, attendance, and discipline reports; and
  (5) Interviewing all nominated students by a student selection committee established by the REACH participating school system.
(b) REACH participating school systems shall be eligible to designate REACH scholars each school year, the number of which shall be subject to available appropriations.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 553,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 229,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
