# § 20-3-45.1. Powers and duties of council

(1) Serve as the state advisory body required by federal granting authorities for state projects and to follow the regulations and guidelines promulgated by those granting authorities;
(2) Serve in an advisory capacity to the Division of Archives and History on issues concerning records;
(3) Identify endangered records of historical value and to recommend appropriate actions to protect them;
(4) Promote state-wide planning for historical records needs;
(5) Cooperate with and secure cooperation of every department, agency, or instrumentality in the state government or its political subdivisions in furtherance of the purposes of this part;
(6) Encourage high visibility historical records projects and studies with a state-wide impact, when studies and projects cross organizational and jurisdictional lines;
(7) Foster communication among all members of the historical records community and to encourage the development and adoption of state-wide goals and common practices to improve the condition of historical records;
(8) Appoint appropriate subcommittees or advisory committees;
(9) Recommend to the State Records Committee records retention schedules for records of the board in accordance with Article 5 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, the "Georgia Records Act";
(10) Accept and use gifts, grants, and donations for the purpose of carrying out this part. Any funds, personal property, or services received as gifts, grants, or donations shall be kept separate and apart from any funds received by state appropriations; and such funds, property, or services so received by gifts, grants, or donations shall remain under the control of and subject to the direction of the council to carry out this part and as such shall not lapse at the end of each fiscal year;
(11) Make grants for the purpose of carrying out this part. Such grants shall be made and the funds shall be administered and expended subject to this part and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the funding source; and
(12) Do any and all things necessary and proper to enable it to perform wholly and adequately its duties and to exercise the authority granted to it.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 20, eff. 3/13/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 20, eff. 4/29/2014.
Renumbered from § 45-13-56 and amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 184,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 749, § 19, eff. 7/1/2002.
