# § 20-3-499.1. Requirements of REACH scholar

(a) To maintain eligibility during middle school and high school, a REACH scholar shall:
  (1)
    (A) Maintain a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.5 or better as calculated by the REACH participating school system, if the REACH scholar is in middle school; or
    (B) Maintain a secondary cumulative grade point average of at least 2.5 as calculated by the authority in the same manner as the high school grade point average for initial HOPE scholarship eligibility;
  (2) Adhere to the REACH participating school system's stated attendance policy and attend classes regularly. A REACH scholar will be placed on probation for one semester after reaching five or more combined excused and unexcused absences in one semester. While on probation, the REACH scholar may be removed from the program if he or she has any additional unexcused absences or three or more excused absences;
  (3) Adhere to the REACH participating school system's stated disciplinary policy. A REACH scholar will be placed on probation for one semester if he or she receives more than one in-school suspension per semester or immediately upon an out-of-school suspension. While on probation, the REACH scholar may be removed from the program if he or she has an additional suspension;
  (4) Remain drug and alcohol-free. A REACH scholar convicted of committing a felony or misdemeanor involving marijuana, controlled substances, or dangerous drugs is immediately ineligible for further participation in the scholarship program. A REACH scholar who fails to comply with the REACH participating school system's drug and alcohol policies will be immediately ineligible for further participation in the scholarship program;
  (5) Meet with his or her assigned REACH mentor a minimum of eight times per semester;
  (6) Meet with his or her assigned REACH academic coach a minimum of four times per semester;
  (7) Attend REACH program activities;
  (8) Graduate from high school; and
  (9) Enroll in a University System of Georgia or Technical College System of Georgia institution or an eligible private postsecondary educational institution.
(b) To maintain eligibility during college, a REACH scholar shall:
  (1) Be enrolled full-time at an eligible postsecondary institution;
  (2) Maintain a minimum 2.0 grade point average and satisfactory academic progress, as determined by the authority;
  (3) Complete and submit a Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) each year of college; and
  (4) Not be in default on a federal or state educational loan or owe a refund to a federal or state student financial aid program.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 20, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 229,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
