# § 20-3-395.1. Eligibility; interest rate; repayment; maximum amount

(a) The authority is authorized to provide direct loans to students who are legal residents of this state and who are not ineligible under Code Section 20-3-395.4 in accordance with the provisions of this subpart and regulations of the authority promulgated to implement this subpart.
(b) The interest rate for loans provided in accordance with this subpart shall be 1 percent annually except as provided by Code Section 20-3-395.3 in the case of default.
(c) The repayment period for loans provided in accordance with this subpart shall be ten years; provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of Code Section 20-3-395.3, the commission may provide by regulation for deferral of payments and forbearance of payments similar to deferral and forbearance under federal student loan programs.
(d) The maximum amount of a loan under this subpart shall be the lesser of: $10,000.00 per calendar year; or the cost of attendance of a student minus the expected family assistance and the estimated amount of the student's loans, grants, and scholarships, including loans, grants, and scholarships provided under Title IV. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, each applicant for a loan shall be required to apply for other educational assistance, including scholarships, grants, and state funded or Title IV loans, and to provide information regarding such other applications and the result of such applications as a condition of applying for a loan under this subpart. Loans under this subpart are designed as funding of the last resort for students who have diligently sought scholarships, grants, and state funded or Title IV loans. Applicants are not required to apply for loans under Subpart 4B or Subpart 4C of this part as a condition of eligibility for loans under this subpart.
(e) Eligibility for a loan under this subpart shall be determined annually. A student who has graduated from an eligible high school shall be eligible for a loan for the first year of attendance at an eligible postsecondary institution if the student graduated from an eligible high school before May 1, 2007, with a cumulative grade average of at least a 75 numeric average in his or her core curriculum subjects or if a student graduated from an eligible high school on or after May 1, 2007, with a cumulative grade point average in the student's core curriculum subjects of at least 2.5 on a 4.0 scale. A student's cumulative grade average or grade point average shall be calculated by the methods set out in Code Section 20-2-157. A student who has earned a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0 at an eligible postsecondary institution shall be eligible for a loan for a second or a subsequent year of attendance at an eligible postsecondary institution.
(f) A student's maximum total eligibility for loans under this subpart shall be limited to $40,000.00.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 577,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
