# § 20-3-411. Definitions

(1) "Academic year" means a period of time, typically nine months, in which a full-time student is expected to complete the equivalent of at least two semesters' or three quarters' academic work.
(2) "Approved school" means:
  (A) A nonproprietary institution of higher education located in this state which is not a branch of the university system; which is not a four-year or graduate level institution of higher education that is, or is a part of, a college or university system that is owned and operated by a state other than Georgia; which is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools; which is not a graduate level school or college of theology or divinity; and which is not presently receiving state funds under Article 4 of this chapter; provided, however, that an institution which otherwise meets the requirements of this definition and of this subpart except for the lack of accreditation by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools shall be deemed to be an "approved school" during the period that the institution holds candidate for accreditation status with the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools; provided, further, that an institution which otherwise meets the requirements of this definition and of this subpart except for the lack of accreditation by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools shall be deemed to be an "approved school" if such institution was previously an "approved school" under division (iii) of subparagraph (B) of this paragraph within the last five years; provided, further, that an institution which was previously accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools within the last seven years and which otherwise meets the requirements of this definition and of this subpart except for the lack of accreditation by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools shall be deemed to be an "approved school"; and
  (B)
    (i) A qualified proprietary institution of higher education located in this state which is a baccalaureate degree-granting institution of higher education; which is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools; which is not a Bible school or college (or, at the graduate level, a school or college of theology or divinity); which admits as regular students only persons who have a high school diploma, a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma, or a degree from an accredited postsecondary institution; whose students are eligible to participate in the federal Pell Grant program; which has been reviewed and approved for operation and for receipt of tuition equalization grant funds by the Georgia Nonpublic Postsecondary Education Commission; which is domiciled and incorporated in the State of Georgia; which has been in existence in the State of Georgia for at least ten years; and which met all of the requirements of this subparagraph by January 1, 2011; provided, however, that the criteria for approval for receipt of tuition equalization grant funds shall include but not be limited to areas of course study, quality of instruction, student placement rate, research and library sources, faculty, support staff, financial resources, physical plant facilities resources, and support and equipment resources.
    (ii) Any proprietary institution that is otherwise qualified pursuant to division (i) of this subparagraph on July 1, 1995, shall be deemed to be eligible for receipt of tuition equalization grant funds subject, however, to any subsequent review of such approval pursuant to any proper regulations which may thereafter be adopted in accordance with paragraph (10) of subsection (b) of Code Section 20-3-250.5 applicable to all qualified proprietary institutions.
    (iii) Any proprietary institution of higher education that is otherwise qualified pursuant to division (i) of this subparagraph on January 1, 2011, shall continue to be an approved school pursuant to this paragraph as long as it continues to meet the requirements of division (i) of this subparagraph as such existed on March 14, 2011.
(3) "Eligible student" means a person who:
  (A) Is enrolled in or accepted for enrollment as a full-time undergraduate level student in an approved school or as a graduate level student if funds are specifically appropriated in appropriations Acts of the General Assembly for payment of grants to graduate level students;
  (B) Is or will be a citizen of Georgia for a period of at least 12 months immediately prior to each date of registration in the approved school;
  (C) Is not knowingly promoting or engaging in any activity which is determined by the approved school's governing body to be detrimental to the school; and
  (D) Meets the eligibility requirements for the HOPE program as set forth in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and in subsection (b) of Code Section 20-3-519.1.
(4) "Full-time student" means an undergraduate student who enrolls for a minimum of 12 academic hours, or ten academic hours in the case of a graduate student.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 726,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 314,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 3,§ 11, eff. 3/15/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 402,§ 1, eff. 4/30/2008.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 20, eff. 2/12/2001.
