# § 20-3-511. Transfer of powers, rights, and duties to the Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce

(a) In addition to those powers, rights, and duties provided by Chapter 10 of Title 49, Chapter 34 of Title 31, and elsewhere by law, the board shall succeed to the powers, rights, and duties of the former State Medical Education Board as provided by this part.
(b) The rights and obligations of parties to contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions entered into before July 1, 2011, by the former State Medical Education Board shall continue to exist; and none of such rights and obligations shall be impaired or diminished by reason of the transfer of the functions to the board. In all such instances, the board shall be substituted for the former State Medical Education Board, and the board shall succeed to the rights and obligations under such contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions.
(c) The board shall succeed to all rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and administrative orders of the State Medical Education Board that were in effect on June 30, 2011, or scheduled to go into effect on or after July 1, 2011, and which relate to the functions transferred to the board pursuant to this part. Such rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and administrative orders shall remain in effect unless and until amended, repealed, superseded, or nullified by the board by proper authority or as otherwise provided by law.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 113,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
