# § 20-3-519.5. Eligibility requirements for a HOPE grant; award amount

(a) To be eligible for a HOPE grant, a student seeking a diploma or certificate at a branch of the Technical College System of Georgia or a unit of the University System of Georgia shall, in addition to meeting the residency requirements set forth in subsection (a) of Code Section 20-3-519.1:
  (1) Meet achievement standards by earning a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0 at the end of the quarter or semester in which the student has attended 30 or 60 semester hours or 45 or 90 quarter hours of courses toward a diploma or certificate for which the student received HOPE funds pursuant to this part. The grade point average shall be calculated using such 30 semester or 45 quarter hours taken pursuant to this subsection. An otherwise eligible student who attains or regains a cumulative grade point average of at least 2.0 at the end of a quarter or semester in which the student has attempted 30 or 60 semester hours or 45 or 90 quarter hours may qualify or requalify for a HOPE grant; provided, however, that a student who receives a HOPE grant and loses eligibility pursuant to this paragraph is only eligible to regain or requalify for the HOPE grant one time; and
  (2) Meet enrollment standards by being admitted, enrolled, and classified as an undergraduate student in a matriculated status in a program of study leading to a certificate or diploma and maintaining satisfactory academic progress in accordance with the standards and practices used for federal Title IV programs by the institution at which the student is enrolled.
(a.1) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, a student seeking an associate degree at a branch of the Technical College System of Georgia who received a high school diploma pursuant to Code Section 20-2-149.2 through completion of:
  (1) A technical college diploma program and all postsecondary academic education and technical education and training prerequisites for any state, national, or industry occupational certifications or licenses required to work in the field; or
  (2) At least two technical college certificate of credit programs in one specific career pathway and all postsecondary academic education and technical education and training prerequisites for any state, national, or industry occupational certifications or licenses required to work in the field as determined by the Technical College System of Georgia shall be eligible for a HOPE grant as long as he or she meets the residency requirements set forth in subsection (a) of Code Section 20-3-519.1 and the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section. The HOPE grant shall be used to cover the cost of up to 30 degree hours to obtain an associate degree.
(b) There is no minimum number of hours of enrollment required for eligibility for a HOPE grant under this Code section.
(c) Subject to the provisions of subsection (e) of this Code section, an eligible student may receive HOPE grants for all coursework required by the institution for programs of study leading to a certificate or diploma, including remedial and developmental courses.
(d) Subject to the amounts appropriated by the General Assembly and provisions relating to the Lottery for Education Account in Code Section 50-27-13, a HOPE grant awarded under this Code section shall equal the HOPE award amount.
(d.1) For each semester or quarter following a semester or quarter that it is determined that a student is a Zell Miller Grant Scholar, a student shall be awarded an amount in addition to the HOPE award amount equal to the difference between the HOPE award amount and the then current academic year standard undergraduate tuition amount at the institution to be paid or the exceptional tuition rate amount in effect on January 1, 2014, for programs with exceptional tuition rates in effect on January 1, 2014. Eligibility to be a Zell Miller Grant Scholar shall be determined on a semester or quarter basis and paid for the next semester or quarter in which a student is enrolled. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Zell Miller Grant Scholar shall also receive one semester or quarter of retroactive payment if the student was not eligible to be a Zell Miller Grant Scholar because he or she had no cumulative grade point average.
(e) No student who has a baccalaureate degree, its equivalent or higher, from any postsecondary institution shall be eligible to receive a HOPE grant. No student may receive HOPE grants for more than 95 quarter hours or 63 semester hours of attempted coursework. No student may receive more than a cumulative total of 190 quarter hours or 127 semester hours of combined HOPE scholarships and grants. For purposes of this subsection, attempted hours shall not include hours for courses taken and paid for by a HOPE grant while a student is participating in dual credit enrollment with both an eligible high school and a branch of the Technical College System of Georgia or a unit of the University System of Georgia. The Technical College System of Georgia or the University System of Georgia, as applicable, shall verify that the student is enrolled in an eligible high school and shall notify the Georgia Student Finance Commission of the student's participation in dual credit enrollment.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 20, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 35,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 20, eff. 3/13/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 636,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 38,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 3,§ 4, eff. 3/15/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 242,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 697,§ 4B, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 720, § 7, eff. 7/1/2004.
