# § 20-3-45. Georgia Historical Records Advisory Council created; purpose; members; expenses; coordinator; officers; meetings; administrative assignment; staff

(a) As used in this part, the term:
  (1) "Council" means the Georgia Historical Records Advisory Council created under this part.
  (2) "Division" means the Division of Archives and History of the University System of Georgia.
(b) There is created and established the Georgia Historical Records Advisory Council with such powers and duties as are set forth in this part. The council shall be a continuation of and successor in interest to the former Georgia Historical Records Advisory Board.
(c) The purpose of the council shall be to advise the board and the Division of Archives and History; to serve as the state advisory body required by federal granting agencies; and to encourage cooperative efforts to improve the condition of Georgia's historical records.
(d) The council shall consist of 12 members to be appointed by the Governor. A majority of the members shall have recognized experience in the administration of government records, historical records, or archives or in a field of research or activity that makes extensive use of historical records. The council shall be as broadly representative as possible of the public and private archival and research communities and organizations in the state.
(e) The Governor shall designate the initial terms of the members of the council as follows: four members shall be appointed for one year; four members shall be appointed for two years; and four members shall be appointed for three years. Thereafter, all succeeding appointments shall be for three-year terms, except that each member shall serve until a successor is appointed. Members shall be eligible for reappointment.
(f) Whenever any vacancy in the membership of the council occurs, the Governor shall appoint a qualified person to fill the unexpired term.
(g) Members of the council shall serve without compensation, except that each member who is not a state officer or state employee shall receive the same expense allowance per day as that received by a member of the General Assembly for each day that such member of the council is in attendance at a meeting of such council, plus reimbursement for actual transportation costs while traveling by public carrier or the same mileage allowance as state government employees for use of a personal car in connection with such attendance.
(h) The director of the Division of Archives and History shall serve as Georgia historical records coordinator and assist the council in its activities.
(i) The council shall elect its chairperson and other officers and make such bylaws for its operation as may be necessary or appropriate.
(j) The council shall meet at least once each calendar year and special meetings may be called by the chairperson.
(k) The council shall be administratively assigned to the division.
(l) The council shall have no permanent staff but may hire temporary staff for specific activities if funds are available.

## History

Renumbered from § 45-13-55 and amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 184,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 749, § 18, eff. 7/1/2002.
