# § 20-3-152. Creation; members, officers, and staff; quorum; procedural rules and regulations; assignment to Department of Administrative Services

(a) There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Georgia Education Authority (University), which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of this state and a public corporation; and by that name, style, and title said body may contract and be contracted with, bring and defend actions, and implead and be impleaded. The authority shall consist of six members, as follows: the Governor, an appointee of the Governor who is not the Attorney General, the state auditor, the chairman of the board of regents, the director of the Office of Planning and Budget, and the chancellor of the university system.
(b) The authority shall elect one of its members as chairperson and another as vice chairperson and a secretary and treasurer, who need not necessarily be a member of the authority. The majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all the rights and perform all the duties of the authority. The members of the authority shall not be entitled to compensation for their services but shall be entitled to and shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties. The authority shall make rules and regulations for its own government. It shall have perpetual existence. Any change in name or composition of the authority shall in no way affect the vested rights of any person under the provisions of this article or impair the obligations of any contracts existing under this article.
(c) The authority is assigned to the Department of Administrative Services for administrative purposes only as prescribed in Code Section 50-4-3.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 609,§ 3-2, eff. 5/6/2024.
