# § 20-3-74. Advisory board of College of Veterinary Medicine - Creation; officers; meetings

(a) There is created the advisory board of the College of Veterinary Medicine of the University of Georgia, which shall consist of eight members as follows: the president of the Georgia Cattlemen's Association, Inc., or his designee, the president of the Georgia Pork Producers Association, Inc., or his designee, the president of the Georgia Milk Producers Association, Inc., or his designee, the president of the Georgia Poultry Federation or his designee, the president of the Georgia Veterinary Medical Association or his designee, the immediate past president of the Georgia Veterinary Medical Association or his designee, the chairman of the Equine Advisory Board or his designee, and the assistant commissioner of agriculture for animal industry or his designee.
(b) The advisory board shall elect a chairman and vice-chairman from its own membership and may elect, from its own membership, such other officers as it deems necessary or appropriate. The chairman or, in his absence, the vice-chairman shall preside at meetings of the advisory board. Three members of the advisory board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(c) The advisory board shall meet on the call of the chairman or on the petition of at least three members, in writing, to the chairman. The advisory board shall meet at the college but may hold meetings at other locations in the state in the discretion of the advisory board. The advisory board shall meet at least twice each year.
