# § 20-3-250.11. Collection of fees established by commission

(a)
  (1) Fees shall be collected by the executive director in such amounts as shall be established by the commission. The commission is authorized to establish the following fees and fee schedules:
    (A) Separate initial application and renewal fee schedules for degree-granting and nondegree-granting nonpublic postsecondary educational institutions based upon the commission's relative cost of performing its duties and responsibilities with regard to those categories of institutions and, within those categories, based upon actual or projected gross tuition of those institutions;
    (B) Special fees for the evaluation of postsecondary educational institutions;
    (C) Fees authorized pursuant to Code Section 20-3-250.27; and
    (D) Special fees to offset other identified administrative costs.
  (2) All fees collected pursuant to this part, except fees collected pursuant to Code Section 20-3-250.27, shall be deposited in the state treasury to the credit of the general fund, and no fees collected under this part shall be subject to refund, except as provided in Code Section 20-3-250.27. Except as otherwise indicated in this part, the fees to be collected by the commission under this part shall accompany an application for authorization to operate.
(b) The commission will pay all costs for evaluation committees that may be necessary to implement this part.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 789,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2022.
