# § 20-3-400.2. Eligibility; repayment period; maximum amount; interest rate; requirements

(a) The authority is authorized to provide direct loans to students who are legal residents of this state and who are not ineligible under Code Section 20-3-400.6 in accordance with the provisions of this subpart and regulations of the authority promulgated to implement this subpart.
(b) The repayment period for a GOT Student Loan shall be ten years; provided, however, that, subject to the provisions of Code Section 20-3-400.5, the commission may provide by regulation for deferral of payments and forbearance of payments similar to deferral and forbearance under federal student loan programs. The maximum amount of a GOT Student Loan shall be the lesser of $10,000.00 per calendar year or the cost of attendance for a calendar year minus the estimated amount of the student's loans, grants, and scholarships, including loans, grants, and scholarships provided under Title IV, for the calendar year for which such loan is sought.
(c) A student may apply for a GOT Student Loan annually. A student who is a legal resident of this state and who has graduated from an eligible high school shall be eligible for a GOT Student Loan for the first year of attendance at an eligible postsecondary institution. Any student who is a legal resident of this state attending an eligible postsecondary institution is eligible for a GOT Student Loan for the second and subsequent years of attendance.
(d) Except as otherwise provided by subsection (e) or (f) of this Code section, the interest rate for a GOT Student Loan shall be a reasonable interest rate as defined by paragraph (8) of Code Section 20-3-400.1 and as established by the authority by rule or regulation.
(e) The annual interest rate for any GOT Student Loan shall be converted to 1 percent retroactive to the origination date of the GOT Student Loan for each student who:
  (1) Completes his or her course of study with a cumulative grade point average no lower than 2.0 on a 4.0 scale and earns a baccalaureate degree within four years from the beginning date of a course of postsecondary study; or
  (2) Completes his or her course of study with a cumulative grade point average no lower than 2.0 on a 4.0 scale and earns a baccalaureate or first professional degree within five years from the beginning date of a course of postsecondary study if the course of postsecondary study:
    (A) Was designed to be completed in five years; and
    (B) Meets the requirements for a first professional degree program; or
    (C) If the course of postsecondary study includes undergraduate studies, leads to a baccalaureate or first professional degree.
(e.1) The annual interest rate for any GOT Student Loan shall be converted to 1 percent retroactive to the origination date of the GOT Student Loan for any student that has met the applicable eligibility requirements to receive a HOPE scholarship under Code Section 20-3-519.2 or a HOPE grant under Code Section 20-3-519.5 as follows:
  (1) If attending an eligible public institution, an amount equal to the difference between the HOPE award amount and the then current academic year standard undergraduate tuition amount at the institution to be paid; and
  (2) If attending an eligible private institution, an amount equal to the difference between the HOPE award amount and the HOPE tuition payment. The provisions of this subsection shall be subject to funding.
(f) The annual interest rate for any GOT Student Loan shall be converted to 2 percent retroactive to the origination date of the GOT Student Loan for each student who:
  (1) Completes his or her course of study with a cumulative grade point average no lower than 2.0 on a 4.0 scale and earns a baccalaureate degree within five years from the beginning date of a course of postsecondary study; or
  (2) Completes his or her course of study with a cumulative grade point average no lower than 2.0 on a 4.0 scale and earns a baccalaureate or first professional degree within six years from the beginning date of a course of postsecondary study if the course of postsecondary study:
    (A) Was designed to be completed in six years; and
    (B) Meets the requirements for a first professional degree program; or
    (C) If the course of postsecondary study includes undergraduate studies, leads to a baccalaureate or first professional degree.
(g) A student's maximum total eligibility for loans under this subpart shall be limited to $40,000.00.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 3,§ 9.1, eff. 3/15/2011.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 577,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2008.
