# § 20-3-345. Trust agreements authorized; provisions of trust agreements and bond resolutions

In the discretion of the authority, any obligation issued under this subpart may be secured by a trust agreement by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside the state. Such trust agreement or the resolution providing for the issuance of such obligations may pledge or assign all or any part of the revenues or assets of the authority derived or held by the authority under and pursuant to this subpart, including, without limitation, as they relate to this subpart: educational loans; educational loan commitments; temporary loans; contracts; agreements; other security or investment obligations, fees, or charges made or received; moneys received for the sale of or in payment of educational loans and interest thereon, including the proceeds of guaranties thereon; and any other moneys that may be received, held, or due to be received by the authority from the United States or any other person as a result of the activities and operations of the authority under this subpart. The educational loans which are, or the revenues from which are, included within any such pledge may include, at the discretion of the authority and to the extent specified in such resolution or trust indenture and in accordance with all other resolutions, indentures, contracts of the authority and in accordance with law, educational loans financed by the authority with funds available to it pursuant to Subpart 3 of this part. Such trust agreement or resolution may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the holders of any such obligations as may be reasonable, proper, and not in violation of law, including covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the purposes to which obligation proceeds may be applied; the disposition or pledging of revenues or assets of the authority under this subpart; the terms and conditions for the issuance of additional obligations; and the custody, safeguarding, and application of moneys and assets of the authority under this subpart. It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of the state which may act as depository of the proceeds of obligations, revenues, or other moneys under this subpart to furnish such indemnifying bonds or to pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Any such trust agreement or resolution may set forth the rights and remedies of the holders of the obligations to which it relates and the rights and remedies of the trustee, if any, and may restrict the individual right of action by any such holders. In addition to the foregoing, any such trust agreement or resolution may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the holders of any obligations. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust agreement or resolution may be paid from the revenues or assets pledged or assigned to the payment of the principal of and the interest on obligations or from any other funds available to the authority for this purpose.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 399,§ 2-23, eff. 6/30/2024.
