# § 20-3-384. Corporation established; contracts with civil legal aid organizations

(a) The authority is authorized to establish a corporation to administer the fund. Any subsidiary corporation created pursuant to this subsection shall be created pursuant to Chapter 3 of Title 14, the "Georgia Nonprofit Corporation Code," and the Secretary of State shall be authorized to accept any such filing. Upon dissolution of any subsidiary corporation of the authority created pursuant to this subsection, any assets shall revert to the authority or to any successor to the authority or, failing such succession, to the State of Georgia. The authority shall not be liable for the debts or obligations or bonds of any subsidiary corporation or for the actions or omissions to act of any subsidiary corporation unless the authority expressly so consents.
(b) Any corporation established pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, through the authority, is authorized to enter into contracts with civil legal aid organizations or the employees of such organizations and public defender organizations or the employees of such organizations for the purpose of providing education loan forgiveness in consideration of such organizations' contributions and commitment to providing legal services to low-income civil clients or indigent criminal defendants of this state.
(c) In order for attorneys employed by civil legal aid organizations and public defender organizations to participate, such organizations must contract with the authority and promise to provide the civil legal aid services or public defender services for the period of time for which an assisted employee is obligated or some other period determined by the authority.

## History

Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 914, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
