# § 20-3-92. Definitions

(1) "Controlled substance" means any drug, substance, or immediate precursor included in the definition of controlled substances in paragraph (4) of Code Section 16-13-21.
(2) "Dangerous drug" means any drug defined as such under Code Section 16-13-71.
(3) "Marijuana" shall have the same meaning as such term is defined in paragraph (16) of Code Section 16-13-21.
(4) "Student" means any person who is enrolled as a student in courses for academic credit on a full-time, part-time, temporary, or intermittent basis in any college, university, institution of higher education, or facility which is a unit or member institution of the University System of Georgia.
(5) "Student organization" means any organized group or body of students, social, academic, political, or otherwise, which is affiliated with or primarily composed of students enrolled in any university system institution or facility. The term shall include any and all societies, clubs, fraternities, sororities, academic disciplinary groups, or other student entities which operate on the campus of, or which is recognized as a student organization by, any college, university, or other educational institution or facility of the University System of Georgia.
(6) "University system" refers to that system of colleges, universities, and educational institutions which is governed, managed, controlled, and operated by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia, a department and an agency of the executive branch of state government of the State of Georgia under Article VIII, Section IV, Paragraph I of the Constitution.
