# § 20-3-47.3. Determination of archival value of surplus printed material; release of material to division; notation of release on inventory; transmission of copy of inventory to originating state agency

(a) When the division receives an inventory of surplus printed material as provided for by Code Section 45-13-82, the division shall make a determination of whether or not any of such surplus printed material has archival value within the meaning of Part 1A of this article. If the determination cannot be made on the basis of the description of the surplus printed material included in the inventory of such material, the director of the division or his or her designee shall visit the state agency which submitted the inventory for the purpose of examining the surplus printed material listed on such inventory; and the determination required in this Code section may be made on the basis of such examination.
(b) If any surplus printed material is determined to have archival value as provided by subsection (a) of this Code section, the state agency which submitted the inventory shall release such printed material to the division. The division shall make or cause to be made a notation on the inventory for each item of surplus printed material so released; and a copy of such inventory, signed by the director of the division or his or her designee, containing the notations thereon shall be transmitted to the originating state agency. The state agency submitting the inventory shall be authorized to deliver surplus printed material having archival value to the division if the state agency has transportation available for such purpose. If the state agency does not have transportation available for such purpose, the division shall provide for the transportation of surplus printed material having archival value.

## History

Renumbered from § 45-13-83 and amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 184,§ 1-3, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 749, § 20, eff. 7/1/2002.
