# § 20-3-680. Legislative findings; definitions

(a) The General Assembly finds that intercollegiate athletic programs provide student athletes with significant educational opportunities. However, participation in intercollegiate athletics should not infringe upon the rights of student athletes to have control over and profit from the commercial use of their name, image, or likeness.
(b) As used in this article, the term:
  (1) "Intercollegiate athletic association" means any athletic association, athletic conference, or other similar organization which acts as an organizing, sanctioning, scheduling, or rule-making body for intercollegiate athletic events in which postsecondary educational institutions participate.
  (2) "Postsecondary educational institution" means a school which is:
    (A) A unit of the University System of Georgia;
    (B) A unit of the Technical College System of Georgia; or
    (C) An independent or private college or university located in Georgia and eligible to be deemed an "approved school" pursuant to paragraph (2) of Code Section 20-3-411.
  (3) "Student athlete" means a student enrolled at a postsecondary educational institution who participates in or is eligible to participate in any intercollegiate athletic program at such institution. A person who is permanently ineligible to participate in a particular intercollegiate athletic program is not a student athlete for the purposes of such athletic program.
  (4) "Team contract" means any written agreement between a student athlete and a postsecondary educational institution, or a division, department, program, or team thereof, which includes goals and objectives, standards, prohibitions, rules, or expectations applicable to the student athlete.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 228,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
