# § 20-3-638. Annual statement and report requirements; audits

(a) The board shall furnish, subject to reasonable administrative fees and charges, to each account owner an annual statement of the following:
  (1) The amount contributed under the savings trust agreement;
  (2) The annual earnings and accumulated earnings on the savings trust account; and
  (3) Any other terms and conditions that the board deems by rule are necessary or appropriate, including without limitation those necessary to conform the savings trust account with the requirements of Section 529 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 or other applicable federal law.
(b) The board shall furnish an additional statement complying with subsection (a) of this Code section to an account owner or beneficiary on written request. The board may charge a reasonable fee for each statement furnished under this subsection.
(c) The board shall prepare or cause to be prepared an annual report setting forth in appropriate detail an accounting of the funds and a description of the financial condition of the plan at the close of each fiscal year. Such report shall be submitted to the Governor, the President of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives. In addition, the board shall make the report available to account owners or account contributors of savings trust agreements. The accounts of the trust fund shall be subject to annual audits by the state auditor or his or her designee.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 15, § 1, eff. 3/23/2001.
