# § 20-3-41. Division of Archives and History transferred to University System

(a) There is transferred to the University System of Georgia the Division of Archives and History formerly of the office of the Secretary of State which on and after July 1, 2013, shall be the Division of Archives and History of the University System of Georgia and may also be referred to as the Georgia Archives. The Georgia Archives so transferred shall be under the management and control of the board of regents and shall be the successor to and a continuation of the former Division of Archives and History of the Office of the Secretary of State. All persons employed in the former division as of June 30, 2013, shall be transferred to the new division effective July 1, 2013.
(b) The change of the name and governance of the former Division of Archives and History of the Office of the Secretary of State and its continuation, as provided in this Code section, shall in no way affect any existing obligations, liabilities, or rights of the Georgia Archives, as such existed on June 30, 2013. All such obligations, liabilities, and rights are transferred to, vested in, and assumed by the board. All existing contracts and agreements between any party and the Georgia Archives shall not be affected by this Code section but shall continue in full force and effect, without interruption, as contracts or agreements of the board.
(c) All right, title, interest, and ownership of all assets, including all real estate, of the former Division of Archives and History of the Office of the Secretary of State are transferred to and vested in the board.

## History

Renumbered from § 45-13-40 and amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 184,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 749, § 9, eff. 7/1/2002.
