# § 20-3-231. Legislative findings; purpose of commission

(a)Legislative findings. The General Assembly has determined that it is a valid public purpose to promote the educational level of achievement of citizens and persons in this state by creating the Georgia Student Finance Authority, a public authority, as provided for in Part 3 of this article, for the purpose of providing educational scholarship, grant, and loan assistance to citizens and persons in this state, in large part by educational loans to be funded through the issuance of revenue bonds and other obligations by the authority in such a manner as not to pledge the faith and credit of the state to the payment of such bonds and obligations and to use further such bond funds to provide a form of secondary market for lenders in further support of the educational loan program of the state. The General Assembly finds that it is desirable and cost efficient and will permit greater coordination of state student aid programs; maximum utilization of available student aid funds; simplification of procedures for students, parents, and educational institutions; and possible prevention of frauds and abuses, and thereby better serve the public interests of the state if a maximum degree of centralization in the management and administration of the functions of the authority is provided for; and, further, that although public moneys may within the provisions of the Constitution of Georgia be appropriated for use by the authority for prescribed student aid purposes, such moneys may not be lawfully appropriated directly to the authority but must, in lieu thereof, be appropriated to an agency within the executive branch of state government for use by the authority for such prescribed purposes. The General Assembly resolves, therefore, that in order to accomplish the foregoing essential and valid public purposes of the authority as set forth in Part 3 of this article that it is necessary, essential, a valid public purpose, and within the meaning of the Constitution of Georgia to create the Georgia Student Finance Commission as an agency within the executive branch of state government for the purposes prescribed in this part.
(b) [Repealed in its entirety on 6/30/2035, or ten years after it becomes effective, whichever is later; provided, however, that any student who is qualified under the program prior to such repeal shall continue to be eligible under the program until the student returns to a public school, graduates from high school, or reaches the age of 20 years, or for any special education student, reaches the age of 21 years] Purpose of commission. The purpose of the commission shall be to help improve the higher educational opportunities of citizens and persons in this state by serving as an agency and budget unit within the executive branch of state government for the purpose of carrying out and effectuating the powers, duties, and functions set forth in this part and in Chapter 2B of this title.
(b) [Effective upon repeal] Purpose of commission. The purpose of the commission shall be to help improve the higher educational opportunities of citizens and persons in this state by serving as an agency and budget unit within the executive branch of state government for the purpose of carrying out and effectuating the powers, duties, and functions set forth in this part.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2024app. to school years beginning on 7/1/2025, and continuing thereafter.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 399,§ 2-7, eff. 6/30/2024.
See 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 6-1.
