# § 20-3-313. Authority created as successor to Georgia Higher Education Assistance Authority; abolishment of Georgia Higher Education Assistance Corporation

(a) There is created a public authority, a body corporate and politic, to be known as the Georgia Student Finance Authority, which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality and a nonprofit public corporation of the state.
(b) The authority created by subsection (a) of this Code section shall be the successor to and a continuation of, without interruption, the previously existing Georgia Higher Education Assistance Authority created by an Act approved April 25, 1969 (Ga. L. 1969, p. 683), as amended. The change of the name of the Georgia Higher Education Assistance Authority to the Georgia Student Finance Authority and its continuation, as provided in this Code section, shall in no way affect any existing obligations, liabilities, or rights of the previously existing Georgia Higher Education Assistance Authority. All such obligations, liabilities, and rights are transferred to, vested in, and assumed by the authority created by subsection (a) of this Code section. All existing contracts and agreements between any party and the previously existing Georgia Higher Education Assistance Authority shall not be affected by this Code section but shall continue in full force and effect, without interruption, as contracts or agreements between such party and the authority created by subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Right, title, interests in, and ownership of all assets of the previously existing Georgia Higher Education Assistance Authority are transferred to and vested in the authority created by subsection (a) of this Code section; provided, however:
  (1) That educational loan accounts, other than educational loan trust fund account moneys; moneys collected thereon; income earned thereon; state funds appropriated therefor; moneys derived therefrom; and contracts, contract rights, and choses in action in respect thereof shall be used by the authority for educational loan and operating expense purposes provided for in Subpart 3 of this part;
  (2) That educational loan trust fund assets and earnings thereon shall be used in accordance with the terms of agreements entered into in respect thereof; and
  (3) That all moneys appropriated before April 7, 1981, by the state for use by the authority for the purpose of providing designated types of scholarship or grant assistance to students pursuant to provisions of law existing prior to July 1, 1980, shall be used only for the purpose of providing the same type of designated scholarship or grant assistance to students in accordance with the provisions of this part relative to such designated scholarship or grant purposes.
(d) As of June 30, 2024:
  (1) The Georgia Higher Education Assistance Corporation is abolished and shall cease to exist;
  (2) Any outstanding obligations or liabilities of the previously existing Georgia Higher Education Assistance Corporation are transferred to and vested in the authority created by subsection (a) of this Code section; and
  (3) The right, title, interests in, and ownership of all assets of the previously existing Georgia Higher Education Assistance Corporation are transferred to and vested in the authority created by subsection (a) of this Code section; provided, however, that such assets shall be used for educational purposes.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 399,§ 1-2, eff. 6/30/2024.
