# § 20-3-202. Creation; membership; officers; compensation of members; expenses of members; organization; duration; quorum

There is created a public body corporate and politic to be known as the Private Colleges and Universities Authority, and by that name, style, and title such body may contract and be contracted with, bring and defend actions and implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of law and equity. Such authority, however, shall not be a state institution nor a department or agency of the state but shall be an instrumentality of purely public charity performing an essential governmental function, being a distinct corporate entity. Article VII, Section IV, Paragraph VII of the Constitution of Georgia and Article 2 of Chapter 17 of Title 50, the "Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act," shall not apply to the authority created in this Code section. The authority shall consist of five members appointed by the Governor. Two of the members appointed in 1978 shall be appointed for a term expiring January 1, 1980; two shall be appointed for a term expiring January 1, 1982; and one shall be appointed for a term expiring January 1, 1984. Thereafter, each member shall be appointed for a six-year term. The Governor shall fill the unexpired term of any member so appointed who shall cease to serve. All members appointed shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified and any member may be reappointed. Immediately after each such appointment, such member of the authority shall enter upon his duties. The authority shall elect one of its members as chairman and another as vice-chairman and shall appoint a secretary, who need not be a member of the authority. The members of the authority may be compensated in an amount not to exceed the per diem amount paid to the members of the General Assembly under applicable Georgia law as in effect from time to time, plus actual expenses incurred, from the funds available to pay the administrative costs and expenses incurred by the authority, for each day's service spent in the performance of the duties of the authority. The authority may make rules and regulations for its own government, including, but not limited to, the payment of compensation to its members. The authority shall have perpetual existence. At all meetings of the authority the presence in person of a majority of the members in office shall be necessary for the transaction of business, and the affirmative vote of a majority of the members then in office shall be necessary for any action of the authority.

## History

Reenacted by 2024 Ga. Laws 399,§ 3-1, eff. 6/30/2024.
Repealed and reserved by 2019 Ga. Laws 296,§ 7-1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Part 7 of 2019 Ga. Laws 296, which repealed Article 6, relating to the Private Colleges and Universities Authority, was declared unconstitutional and its implementation was permanently enjoined by Private Colleges and Universities Authorities v. Kemp, No. 2019CV322341 (Superor Court of Fulton County, July 8, 2019)
