# § 20-3-39. Reassignment of responsibilities for operation and management of public libraries; employees; transfer of funding; rules and regulations

(a) Effective July 1, 2000, the board of regents shall carry out all the functions and exercise all of the powers formerly held by the Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia, for the operation and management of public library services and public libraries. Subject to subsection (b) of this Code section, all persons employed by and positions authorized for the Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia, to perform these functions on June 30, 2000, shall, on July 1, 2000, be transferred to the board of regents. All office equipment, furniture, and other assets in possession of the Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia, which are used or held exclusively or principally by personnel transferred under this subsection shall be transferred to the board of regents on July 1, 2000.
(b) All transfers of employees and assets provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be subject to the approval of the board of regents, and such personnel or assets shall not be transferred if the board of regents determines that a specific employee or asset should remain with the transferring agency.
(c) Employees who are transferred to the board of regents pursuant to this Code section shall be subject to the employment practices and policies of the board on and after July 1, 2000, but the compensation and benefits of such transferred employees shall not be reduced as a result of such transfer. Employees who are subject to the rules of the State Personnel Board and who are transferred to the board of regents shall retain all existing rights under such rules. Retirement rights of such transferred employees existing under the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia or other public retirement systems on June 30, 2000, shall not be impaired or interrupted by the transfer of such employees and membership in any such retirement system shall continue in the same status possessed by the transferred employees on June 30, 2000. Accrued annual and sick leave possessed by said employees on June 30, 2000, shall be retained by said employees as employees of the board.
(d) Funding for functions and positions transferred to the board of regents under this Code section shall be transferred as provided in Code Section 45-12-90.
(e) The board of regents shall succeed to all rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and administrative orders of the Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia, where applicable, which are in effect on June 30, 2000, and which relate to the functions transferred to the board. Such rules, regulations, policies, and procedures shall remain in effect until amended, repealed, superseded, or nullified by the board of regents.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-24, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 20, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
