# § 20-3-423. Creation and composition of selection committee; duties of selection committee

(a) For the purpose of considering nominations submitted under Code Section 20-3-422, there is created a selection committee, the membership of which shall be as follows:
  (1) The chief executive officer of the University of North Georgia or his or her designated representative, who shall serve as chairperson of the selection committee;
  (2) The professor of military science at the University of North Georgia or his or her designated representative;
  (3) The director of admissions of the University of North Georgia;
  (4) A civilian faculty member of the University of North Georgia designated by the chief executive officer of the university;
  (5) A commissioned officer of the Army National Guard designated by the adjutant general;
  (6) The chairperson of the House Committee on Higher Education or his or her designee;
  (7) The chairperson of the Senate Higher Education Committee or his or her designee; and
  (8) The executive director of the Georgia Student Finance Authority or his or her designated representative.
(b) It shall be the duty of the selection committee to select, from the six nominees from each congressional district submitted to the committee pursuant to Code Section 20-3-422, three persons from each congressional district to receive a scholarship under this subpart. In the event a congressional district does not have three qualified candidates, the committee may select a candidate or candidates at large from alternate nominees among the original candidates without regard to the congressional district of residence. Upon selecting the recipients of scholarships, the committee shall:
  (1) Notify each recipient of the scholarship;
  (2) Notify each member of the legislative delegation from each congressional district of the names of the recipients of the scholarships from that congressional district; and
  (3) Notify the authority of the names and addresses of the recipients of the scholarships.
(c) The selection committee shall have the following additional duties:
  (1) To publish in print or electronically and maintain standards of academic excellence and conduct necessary for continued eligibility for a scholarship under this subpart; and
  (2) To monitor the performance of the recipients of scholarships under this subpart in accordance with the standards promulgated under paragraph (1) of this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 331,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 20, eff. 2/12/2001.
