# § 20-3-206. Credit of state or subdivisions not pledged; no taxation or appropriation for authority

Revenue bonds issued under this article shall not be deemed to constitute a debt or pledge of the faith and credit of this state or any political subdivision thereof within the meaning of any provision of the Constitution or laws of this state, but such revenue bonds shall be payable solely from the revenues and receipts received by the authority in connection with the financing of any project as permitted in this article. Revenue bonds issued by the authority shall not directly, indirectly, or contingently obligate the state or any of its political subdivisions to levy or to pledge any form of taxation whatever therefor or to make any appropriation for the payment thereof; and all such revenue bonds or other obligations of the authority shall contain recitals on their face covering substantially the foregoing provisions of this Code section. No state or local public funds shall be appropriated for use of the authority created by this article.

## History

Reenacted by 2024 Ga. Laws 399,§ 3-1, eff. 6/30/2024.
Repealed and reserved by 2019 Ga. Laws 296,§ 7-1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Part 7 of 2019 Ga. Laws 296, which repealed Article 6, relating to the Private Colleges and Universities Authority, was declared unconstitutional and its implementation was permanently enjoined by Private Colleges and Universities Authorities v. Kemp, No. 2019CV322341 (Superor Court of Fulton County, July 8, 2019)
