# § 20-3-519.11. Georgia Student Finance Commission; examination of institutions; rules and regulations; appropriation of funds

(a) The Georgia Student Finance Commission is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent with the provisions of this part relating to grants and scholarships described in this part. The Georgia Student Finance Commission is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations related to grants, loans, and scholarships no longer in effect as of March 15, 2011, under this part but for which the Georgia Student Finance Commission or the Georgia Student Finance Authority and the student were previously obligated.
(b) Every eligible postsecondary institution shall be subject to examination by the Georgia Student Finance Commission for the sole purpose of determining whether such postsecondary institution has properly complied with rules and regulations established pursuant to this Code section. Such examination shall be conducted by the Georgia Student Finance Commission no less frequently than once every three years. The Georgia Student Finance Commission is authorized to conduct the examination using sampling and extrapolation techniques. However, nothing in this subsection shall be construed to interfere with the authority of the postsecondary institution to determine its own curriculum, philosophy, purpose, or administration. In the event it is determined that a postsecondary institution knowingly or through error certified an ineligible student to be eligible for a scholarship or grant under this part, the amount of such scholarship or grant paid to the postsecondary institution pursuant to such certification shall be refunded by the postsecondary institution to the Georgia Student Finance Commission. The Georgia Student Finance Commission may suspend a postsecondary institution from receiving HOPE scholarship or HOPE grant award payments if it fails to refund any moneys deemed due pursuant to this subsection. The Georgia Student Finance Commission shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations necessary to carry out the intent of this subsection.
(c) Any person who knowingly makes or furnishes any false statement or misrepresentation, or who accepts such statement or misrepresentation knowing it to be false, for the purpose of enabling an ineligible student to obtain wrongfully a scholarship or grant under this part shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d) Notwithstanding any provision of this part, the Georgia Student Finance Commission is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations restricting eligibility for the scholarships and grants described in this part or reducing the dollar amount of scholarships and grants described in this part in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 50-27-13. In addition to other remedies available at law and equity, the Georgia Student Finance Commission is authorized to enter into repayment agreements with students that owe refunds to the Georgia Student Finance Commission of any scholarship or grant described in this part. Except as prohibited by federal or other state laws, individuals that owe refunds and fail to enter into repayment agreements with the Georgia Student Finance Commission are, without judicial action, subject to garnishment of their pay, loss of a professional license, offset of lottery winnings, and offset of a state tax refund in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the Georgia Student Finance Commission not inconsistent with the provisions of this part. As used in this subsection, the term "refund" shall mean scholarship and grant amounts paid to or on behalf of students subsequently, in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the Georgia Student Finance Commission, determined to be ineligible to receive such funds.
(e) The funding for the scholarships and grants described in this part shall be subject to annual appropriations enacted by the General Assembly which shall establish the total amount of funding for such scholarships and grants.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 20, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 3,§ 7, eff. 3/15/2011.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 360,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2005.
