# § 20-3-451. Definitions

(1) "Academic year" means a period of time, typically nine months, in which a full-time student is expected to complete the equivalent of at least two semesters' or three quarters' academic work.
(2) "Approved school" means the same schools as enumerated in Code Section 20-3-391 relative to the state student incentive grant program.
(3) "Firefighter" means a person employed by the state or by any county or municipal fire department whose duties include extinguishing fires or investigating cases of suspected arson.
(4) "Law enforcement officer" means a sheriff, deputy sheriff, police officer, policeman, peace officer, officer or member of the Department of Public Safety, or other officer or official who has the power of arrest and who is responsible for enforcing the criminal laws of the state or its political subdivisions.
(5) "Permanent disability" or "permanently disabled" means physical incapacity to perform the duties of a law enforcement officer, firefighter, or prison guard as determined by the public employer designated in paragraph (3) of Code Section 20-3-453, provided that such incapacity is likely to be permanent based upon current medical standards.
(6) "Prison guard" means a person employed by the state or by a county, municipality, or other political subdivision of the state whose principal duties relate to supervision and incarceration of persons accused or convicted of violation of the criminal laws of the state or any county, municipality, or other political subdivision thereof.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 787, § 4, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 952, § 11, eff. 7/1/2002.
