# § 50-3-91. State nut

(a)
  (1) The pecan is the only edible nut native to North America and is this country's most successful homegrown tree nut crop. It is known for its health benefits; scientists have discovered that pecans' golden kernels are good for the heart, with antioxidants and cholesterol lowering effects. The pecan traces its origins back to the 16th century, and the name "pecan" is derived from the Native American word "pacane" that translates as "nut requiring a stone to crack."
  (2) The domestication of the pecan is attributed in large part to a Louisiana plantation slave known as Antoine, a master gardener who developed a method of grafting that led to the birth of the commercial pecan industry. By 1920, Georgia was producing 2.5 million pounds of pecans; half a century later, the Georgia nut had grown so iconic that organizers for the 1996 Olympics crafted Muhammad Ali's torch handle out of pecan wood. Pecan wood is also used for barbecuing, which is a Southern tradition. Pecans remained a local commodity for a long time, enjoyed mainly in the South, but global demand for them has skyrocketed in the last decade, including the emerging marketplace in China where nuts are considered a delicacy. In 2015, Georgia farmers produced 37 percent of pecans grown in the United States and, despite hurricanes and tariffs, Georgia continues to be regarded as the top pecan producing state, with over 170,000 acres planted and many more acres being planted every year.
  (3) Pecans can be enjoyed raw, roasted, or flavored and can be incorporated into gourmet cooking through countless recipes, such as pecan pie, pralines, brittle, and candies. Public recognition and demand for Georgia Grown branded products have increased significantly due in large part to the many Georgia Grown pecan growers and processors who promote this state's homegrown products and agritourism sites. People throughout the nation and world associate Georgia with the pecan, and appropriate Georgia recognition of pecans will help promote tourism in the state.
(b) The pecan is designated as the official Georgia state nut.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 13,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
