# § 50-3-14. Display of Honor and Remember flag; symbolism; manufacturing; guidelines; procurement and distribution

(a) The Honor and Remember flag is designated as the state's emblem of the service and sacrifice of the brave men and women of the United States armed forces who have given their lives in the line of duty.
(b) The Honor and Remember flag may be displayed, in a manner designed to ensure visibility to the public:
  (1) At the following locations:
    (A) Any state-owned building at which the United States flag is displayed;
    (B) Any state-owned military memorials; or
    (C) Any other state-owned location;
  (2) On the following days:
    (A) Armed Forces Day, the third Saturday in May;
    (B) Memorial Day, the last Monday in May;
    (C) Flag Day, June 14;
    (D) Independence Day, July 4;
    (E) National POW-MIA Recognition Day, the third Friday in September;
    (F) Veterans Day, November 11;
    (G) Gold Star Mother's Day, the last Sunday in September; and
    (H) A day on which a member of the United States armed forces who is a resident of the state loses his or her life in the line of duty; and
  (3) With no more than two additional flags when displayed together on a flagpole.
(c) A flag displayed pursuant to this Code section must be manufactured in the United States.
(d) A local government may display the flag in accordance with subparagraphs (b)(2)(C) and (b)(2)(D) of this Code section at any local government building at which the United States flag is displayed and at any other local government location it deems appropriate.
(e) Any department or agency responsible for a location specified in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section, or a local government pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section, may adopt guidelines as necessary to carry out the purpose of this Code section, provided that such guidelines may not require an employee to report to work solely to display the flag.
(f) After July 1, 2019, the Department of Administrative Services may begin procurement and distribution of the flag as necessary to comply with this Code section.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 150,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
