# § 50-3-13. State flags to honor service of deceased qualifying public safety officers

(a) The purpose of this Code section is to recognize and honor those brave men and women who have dedicated their lives to the public safety of the citizens of this state and, in devoted service thereto, contributed to the safety, security, and individual freedom of the citizens of the State of Georgia. To carry out this purpose, the Secretary of State shall, if requested, from funds made available for such purpose, furnish, without cost, a state flag to honor the service of a deceased qualifying public safety officer, which state flag may be displayed in the funeral service of the deceased public safety officer and thereafter given to the officer's estate.
(b) For purposes of this Code section, a "qualifying public safety officer" is a peace officer, as defined in Code Section 35-8-2, sheriff, or firefighter, emergency medical technician, or emergency rescue specialist, as each is defined in Code Section 45-9-81, or member of the Georgia National Guard. In addition, "qualifying public safety officer" is an officer killed in the line of duty or an officer who has served as a qualifying public safety officer for a period of not less than five years. A person committing or convicted of a felony or crime of moral turpitude or whose certification or license to practice as a public safety officer is revoked or terminated shall not be considered a "qualifying public safety officer."
(c) It shall be the duty of any state or local agency with knowledge of the death of a qualifying public safety officer who is an employee of such agency or who retired from such agency to notify the Secretary of State's office for the purpose of providing a state flag to the deceased's estate. Any advocacy group representing the deceased or the deceased's department may also contact the Secretary of State on behalf of a deceased qualifying public safety officer.
(d) The Secretary of State is authorized to administer the recognition program set forth in this Code section and to provide rules and regulations and enter into contracts necessary for the administration of the provisions and the purposes set forth in this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 50, eff. 5/11/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 651,§ 1, eff. 4/28/2006.
See 2006 Ga. Laws 651, § 2.
