# § 50-3-110. Placement; committee; funding

(a) Subject to the availability of funds, there shall be placed within the capitol building or grounds a historic granite monument depicting:
  (1) The Preamble to the Georgia Constitution;
  (2) The part of the Declaration of Independence which states that "We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights, that among these are Life, Liberty and the pursuit of Happiness."; and
  (3) The Ten Commandments.
(b)
  (1) Such monument shall be designed, procured, and placed by the Capitol Art Standards Commission, subject to final approval by a monument committee composed of the following members of the General Assembly:
    (A) Two members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
    (B) Two members of the Senate appointed by the Lieutenant Governor; and
    (C) One member from each house of the General Assembly appointed by the Governor.
  (2) The monument committee established pursuant to this subsection shall stand abolished upon placement of such monument.
(c) No public funds shall be expended for the design or procurement of such monument. Gifts and donations from private individuals, organizations, or foundations shall be accepted and expended by the Capitol Art Standards Commission to carry out the requirements of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 661,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
