# § 50-3-12. State flags to honor service of deceased qualifying elected state officials

(a) The purpose of this Code section is to recognize and honor those men and women who have dedicated their lives to public service through the representation of the citizens of this state and, in devoted service thereto, safeguarded the health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of the State of Georgia. To carry out this purpose, the Secretary of State shall, from funds made available for such purpose, furnish, without cost, a state flag to honor the service of a deceased qualifying elected state official, which state flag may be displayed in the funeral service of the deceased elected state official and thereafter given to the elected state official's estate.
(b) For purposes of this Code section, a "qualifying elected state official" is an official elected to serve in a state position and shall include members of the Georgia General Assembly and any official elected by state-wide or local election to serve in a constitutionally created executive or judicial position or elected position on any constitutionally established board or commission. A person committing or convicted of a felony or crime of moral turpitude during or subsequent to holding office or who has been impeached or otherwise removed from public office shall not be considered a "qualifying elected state official."
(c) The Secretary of State is authorized to administer the recognition program set forth in this Code section and to provide rules and regulations and enter into contracts necessary for the administration of the provisions and the purposes set forth in this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 50, eff. 5/11/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 511,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
See 2006 Ga. Laws 511, § 2.
