# § 34-9-40. State Board of Workers' Compensation created; appointment of members; powers and duties of board generally

There is created and established within the executive branch a board to be known as the State Board of Workers' Compensation, composed of three members who shall be appointed by the Governor for a term of four years. Each member shall hold office until his or her successor shall have been appointed and qualified. An individual chosen to fill a vacancy shall be appointed only for the unexpired term of the member whom he or she shall succeed. The board shall have full authority, power, and the duty to promulgate policies, rules, and regulations for the administration of this chapter. The board may promulgate policies, rules, and regulations concerning the electronic submission to and transmission from the board of documents and filings. Additionally, the board shall have full authority to conduct training seminars for the purpose of educating various employers as to their liability regarding workers' compensation claims. Such seminars may be paid for by the board through funding provided from sources other than appropriations made by the General Assembly. Excess funds generated through seminars may be amended into the board's operating budget as approved by the Office of Planning and Budget. Excess funds generated through seminars not amended into the board's operating budget, as determined by the state auditor, shall lapse to the Office of the State Treasurer.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 378,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
