# § 34-9-383. Membership of board of trustees of fund

(a) Each member of the board of trustees shall be an employee of a participant. The board of trustees shall consist of a chairperson and six trustees elected by the participants. The board of trustees shall initially be appointed by the Governor not later than August 1, 1990. Three of the initial trustees shall be appointed for terms of office which shall end on January 1, 1993, and the chairperson and the three other initial trustees shall be appointed for terms of office which shall end on January 1, 1995. Thereafter, each trustee shall be elected to a four-year term and shall continue to serve unless otherwise ineligible under subsection (b) of this Code section. No later than 90 days prior to the end of any member's term of office, the chairperson shall select a nominating committee from among the participants to select candidates for election by the participants for the following term. In the event the chairperson fails to complete his or her term of office, a successor shall be elected by the board of trustees to fill the unexpired term of office.
(b) A vacancy in the office of any elected member of the board of trustees shall occur upon the member's resignation, death, or conviction of a felony or when the trustee's employer no longer qualifies as a self-insured participant or the trustee is no longer an employee of a participant. The board of trustees may remove any trustee from office on a formal finding of incompetence, neglect of duty, or malfeasance in office. Within 30 days after the office of any elected member becomes vacant for any reason, the board of trustees shall elect a successor to fill that office for the unexpired term. Failure to fill the vacant office shall not invalidate any action taken by the board of trustees provided that said action is taken pursuant to an affirmative vote of not less than four trustees.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 377,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2010.
