# § 34-9-53. Directors emeritus of board - Eligibility for appointment; procedure for appointment

(a) There is created the office of director emeritus of the board.
(b) Any director of the board in office on June 30, 2019, shall be eligible for appointment as director emeritus once such member of the board has reached the age of 60 years and has also attained 20 consecutive years of service in the capacity of chairperson, director, deputy director or administrative law judge, member of the General Assembly, or a combination of consecutive service in these offices, provided that not more than five years' service in the General Assembly shall be allowed as service credit under this Code section. The Governor shall appoint to the position of director emeritus anyone eligible under this Code section who shall advise the Governor in writing that he or she desires to resign from the office of director of the board and accept appointment as director emeritus of the board, stating in such notice the date upon which the resignation as director and appointment as director emeritus shall become effective; and upon such notice the Governor shall make such appointment effective upon the date requested, and the resignation as director of the board shall be automatically effective as of the same date as the appointment as director emeritus.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section, all persons appointed to the office of director emeritus of the board prior to June 30, 2019, shall continue to hold such office for the term and salary provided for in Code Section 34-9-54.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 34, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 34, eff. 5/13/2004.
