# § 34-9-226. Appointment of guardian for minor or incompetent claimant

(a) Except as provided in this Code section, the only person capable of representing a minor or legally incompetent claimant entitled to workers' compensation benefits shall be (1) a conservator duly appointed and qualified by the probate court of the county of residence of such minor or legally incompetent person or by any court of competent jurisdiction within this state, or (2) a conservator or the equivalent thereof duly appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction outside the State of Georgia. Such conservator shall be required to file with the board a copy of the conservatorship returns filed annually with the probate court or with a court of competent jurisdiction outside the State of Georgia and give notice to all parties within 30 days of any change in status.
(b) The board shall have authority in and shall establish procedures for appointing conservators for purposes of administering workers' compensation rights and benefits without such conservator becoming the legally qualified conservator of any other property, without such conservator's actions being approved by a court of record, and without the posting of a bond, in only the following circumstances:
  (1) The board may, in its discretion, authorize and appoint a conservator of a minor or legally incompetent person to receive and administer weekly income benefits on behalf of and for the benefit of said minor or legally incompetent person;
  (2) The board may, in its discretion, authorize and appoint a conservator of a minor or legally incompetent person to compromise and terminate any claim and receive any sum paid in settlement for the benefits and use of said minor or legally incompetent person where the net settlement amount approved by the board is less than $100,000.00; however, where the natural parent is the guardian of a minor and the settlement amount is less than $15,000.00, no board appointed conservator shall be necessary. After settlement, the board shall retain the authority to resolve disputes regarding continuing representation of a board appointed conservator of a minor or legally incompetent person; and
  (3) If a minor or legally incompetent person does not have a duly appointed representative or conservator, the board may, in its discretion, appoint a guardian ad litem to bring or defend an action under this chapter in the name of and for the benefit of said minor or legally incompetent person. However, no guardian ad litem appointed pursuant to this Code section shall be permitted to receive the proceeds from any such action except as provided in this Code section and the board shall have the authority to determine compensation, if any, for any guardian ad litem appointed pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 688,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 181,§ 5, eff. 5/12/2011.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 483, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
