# § 34-9-430. Definitions

(1) "Employer" means a person or entity that is subject to the provisions of this chapter but shall not include the state or any department, agency, or instrumentality of the state; any county; any county or independent school system; any municipal corporation; or any employer which is self-insured for the purposes of this chapter.
(2) "Employer member of a group self-insurance fund" means any employer who is a member of a fund certified pursuant to Code Section 34-9-153.
(3) "Self-insured employer" means any employer certified pursuant to Code Section 34-9-127.
(4) "Work based learning coordinator" means a school employee who coordinates and supervises students in work based learning placements.
(5) "Work based learning employer" means an employer who provides work based learning placements in accordance with this article.
(6) "Work based learning placement" or "placement" means an arrangement between a business or industry partner and a local school system in which students are released for a portion of the school day for structured learning at an employer's job site in either a paid or unpaid position while receiving academic credit. Work based learning placements include, but are not limited to, employability skill development, service learning, cooperative education, internship, youth apprenticeship, and clinical experiences.
(7) "Work based learning student" means a student age 16 or older in a work based learning placement for an employer.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 356,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2016.
