# § 34-9-266. Payment of compensation for time loss, disability, or death resulting from hernia

In all claims for compensation for hernia resulting from injury by accident arising out of and in the course of the employee's employment it must be definitely proved to the satisfaction of the board (1) that there was an injury resulting in hernia, (2) the hernia appeared suddenly, (3) the hernia was accompanied by pain, (4) the hernia immediately followed an accident, and (5) the hernia did not exist prior to the accident for which compensation is claimed. All inguinal, femoral, or other hernias which are proven to be the result of an injury by accident arising out of and in the course of employment shall be treated in a surgical manner by radical operation. If death results from such operation, the death shall be considered as a result of the injury and compensation shall be paid in accordance with Code Section 34-9-265. In nonfatal cases, time loss only shall be paid unless it is shown by special examination, as provided in Code Section 34-9-202, that the injured employee has a permanent partial disability resulting from the operation. If so, compensation shall be paid in accordance with Code Section 34-9-263. In the event the injured employee refuses to undergo the radical operation for the cure of the hernia, no compensation shall be allowed during the time such refusal continues. If, however, it is shown that the employee has some chronic disease or is otherwise in such physical condition that the board considers it unsafe for the employee to undergo such operation, the employee shall be paid as provided in Code Section 34-9-262.
