# § 34-9-207. Employee's waiver of confidentiality of communications with physician; release for medical records and information; refusal to sign release

(a) When an employee has submitted a claim for workers' compensation benefits or is receiving payment of weekly income benefits or the employer has paid any medical expenses, that employee shall be deemed to have waived any privilege or confidentiality concerning any communications related to the claim or history or treatment of injury arising from the incident that the employee has had with any physician, including, but not limited to, communications with psychiatrists or psychologists. This waiver shall apply to the employee's medical history with respect to any condition or complaint reasonably related to the condition for which such employee claims compensation. Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, when requested by the employer, any physician who has examined, treated, or tested the employee or consulted about the employee shall provide within a reasonable time and for a reasonable charge all information and records related to the examination, treatment, testing, or consultation concerning the employee.
(b) When an employee has submitted a claim for workers' compensation benefits or is receiving payment of weekly income benefits or the employer has paid any medical expenses, the employee, upon request, shall provide the employer with a signed release for medical records and information related to the claim or history or treatment of injury arising from the incident, including information related to the treatment for any mental condition or drug or alcohol abuse and to such employee's medical history with respect to any condition or complaint reasonably related to the condition for which such employee claims compensation. Said release shall designate the provider to whom the release is directed. If a hearing is pending, any release shall expire on the date of the hearing.
(c) If the employee refuses to provide a signed release for medical information as required by this Code section and, in the opinion of the board, the refusal was not justified under the terms of this Code section, then such employee shall not be entitled to any compensation at any time during the continuance of such refusal or to a hearing on the issues of compensability arising from the claim.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 40,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2009.
