# § 34-9-358. Payment of assessments to fund by insurers and self-insurers; calculations

(a) Prior to January 1, 2010, each insurer and self-insurer under this chapter shall, under regulations prescribed by the board of trustees, make payments to the fund in an amount equal to that proportion of 175 percent of the total disbursement made from the fund during the preceding calendar year less the amount of the net assets in the fund as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year which the total workers' compensation claims paid by the insurer or self-insurer bears to the total workers' compensation claims paid by all insurers and self-insurers during the preceding calendar year.
(b) On and after January 1, 2010, but prior to January 1, 2016, each insurer and self-insurer under this chapter shall, under regulations prescribed by the board of trustees, make payments to the fund in an amount equal to that proportion of 175 percent of the total disbursement made from the fund during the preceding calendar year as of December 31 of the preceding calendar year which the total workers' compensation claims paid by the insurer or self-insurer bears to the total workers' compensation claims paid by all insurers and self-insurers during the preceding calendar year but not to exceed $100 million.
(c) On and after January 1, 2016, each insurer and self-insurer under this chapter shall, under regulations prescribed by the board of trustees, make payments to the fund in an amount equal to that proportion of $100 million the total workers' compensation claims paid by the insurer or self-insurer bears to the total workers' compensation claims paid by all insurers and self-insurers during the preceding calendar year but not to exceed $100 million.
(d) The administrator is authorized to create and maintain a reserve of surplus moneys as may be deemed necessary by the board of trustees in order to ensure sufficient moneys will be available for the payment of all claims that are to be paid by the fund in accordance with Code Section 34-9-368.
(e) The administrator is authorized to reduce or suspend assessments for the fund when a completed actuarial survey shows further assessments are not needed for all bona fide claims that are to be paid by the fund.
(f)
  (1) When further assessments are not needed as all eligible workers' compensation claims for which the fund is liable in accordance with Code Section 34-9-368 have been paid and all related administrative costs have been accrued or paid and a balance remains in the fund, all insurers and self-insurers in this state who have maintained workers' compensation insurance in this state for any time during the preceding three years from the date that the last claim has been paid shall be entitled to a pro rata refund of assessments previously collected and unexpended in the remaining fund balance.
  (2) The calculation for such pro rata refund to be paid by the fund to each individual insurer and self-insurer shall be determined by the following formula: The balance remaining in the fund shall be the numerator and shall be divided by the total amount of assessments for workers' compensation coverage paid by all insurers and self-insurers during the three-year period, which shall be the denominator. The quotient of the numerator and denominator shall be multiplied by the total amount of assessments that are paid by the individual insurer or self-insurer during the three-year period. The product of those numbers shall represent the amount to be paid to such insurer or self-insurer as its pro rata refund from the balance remaining in the fund.
  (3) Nothing in this subsection shall preclude the board of trustees from authorizing a loss portfolio transfer of any unresolved claims.
(g) An employer who has ceased to be a self-insurer prior to the end of the calendar year shall be liable to the fund for the assessment of the calendar year. Such employer who has ceased to be a self-insurer shall continue to be liable to the fund for assessments in subsequent calendar years so long as payments are made on any workers' compensation claims made while in self-insured status.
(h) The initial assessment of each insurer or self-insurer for the purpose of generating revenue to begin operation of the fund shall be in the amount of one-half of 1 percent of the workers' compensation premiums collected by the insurer for the preceding calendar years from an employer who is subject to this chapter or the equivalent of such in the case of a self-insurer.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 185,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 501,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 145,§ 1, eff. 5/18/2007.
