# § 34-9-60. Rule-making and subpoena powers; service and enforcement of subpoenas

(a) The board may make rules, not inconsistent with this chapter, for carrying out this chapter. Processes and procedure under this chapter shall be as summary and simple as reasonably possible; provided, however, that, in any proceeding under this chapter where the parties are represented by counsel, the board may require, by rule or regulation, on forms provided by the board, the filing of statements of contentions and points of agreement. The board may promulgate policies, rules, and regulations concerning the electronic submission to and transmission from the board of documents and filings. The board, any member of the board, or any administrative law judge shall have the power for the purposes of this chapter to issue and enforce subpoenas, to administer or cause to have administered oaths, and to examine or cause to be examined such parts of the books and records of the parties to a proceeding as relate to questions in dispute. Article 2 of Chapter 13 of Title 24 shall govern the issuance and enforcement of subpoenas pursuant to this Code section, except that the board, any member of the board, or any administrative law judge shall carry out the functions of the court and the executive director shall carry out the functions of the clerk of the court. The board shall not, however, have the power to order imprisonment as a means of enforcing a subpoena. The board shall have the power to issue writs of fieri facias in order to collect fines imposed pursuant to this Code section and such writs may be enforced in the same manner as a similar writ issued by a superior court.
(b) In addition to the enforcement procedures provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, the superior court of the county in which the hearing is held shall, on application of the board, any member of the board, or an administrative law judge, enforce by proper proceedings the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production and examination of books, papers, and records.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 47, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 378,§; 3, eff. 7/1/2005.
