# § 34-9-387. Reimbursement and security deposit from participant for compensation obligations

(a) The board of trustees shall have the right and duty to obtain reimbursement from any participant for payment of compensation obligations in the amount of the participant's compensation obligations assumed by the board of trustees and paid from the fund by the board of trustees as directed by the board, including, but not limited to, claims for all benefits and reasonable administrative and legal costs. The amount of the claims for reimbursement of reasonable administrative and legal costs shall be subject to the approval of the board of trustees.
(b) The board of trustees shall have the right and obligation to use the security deposit of any participant, its excess insurance coverage, and of any other guarantee to pay the participant's workers' compensation obligation assumed by the board of trustees, including reasonable administrative and legal costs. The amount of the claims for reimbursement of reasonable administrative and legal costs shall be subject to the approval of the board of trustees.
(c) The board of trustees shall be a party in interest in any action or proceeding to obtain the security deposit of a participant for the payment of the participant's compensation obligations, in any action or proceeding under the participant's excess insurance policy, and in any other action or proceeding to enforce an agreement of any security deposit or captive or excess insurance carrier and from any other guarantee to satisfy such obligations. The fund is authorized to file a claim against an insolvent participant or the participant's agents and seek reimbursement for any payments made by the fund on behalf of the participant pursuant to this chapter. The fund is subrogated to the claim of any employee whose benefits are paid by the fund. Further, the fund shall have a lien against any reimbursement payments the participant is entitled to from the Subsequent Injury Trust Fund in an amount equal to the payments made by the fund to satisfy the participant's liability for workers' compensation benefits.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 402,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 377,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2010.
