# § 34-9-18. Civil penalties; costs of collection

(a) Any person who willfully fails to file any form or report required by the board, fails to follow any order or directive of the board or any of its members or administrative law judges, or violates any rule or regulation of the board shall be assessed a civil penalty of not less than $100.00 nor more than $1,000.00 per violation.
(b) Any person who knowingly and intentionally makes any false or misleading statement or representation for the purpose of facilitating the obtaining or denying of any benefit or payment under this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty of not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $10,000.00 per violation.
(c) In addition to the penalty and assessed fees as defined in subsection (b) of Code Section 34-9-126, the board may assess a civil penalty of not less than $500.00 nor more than $5,000.00 per violation for the violation by any person of Code Section 34-9-121 or subsection (a) of Code Section 34-9-126.
(d) Any penalty assessed under subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Code section shall be final unless within ten days of the date of the assessment the person fined files a written request with the board for a hearing on the matter.
(e) Any person, firm, or corporation who is assessed a civil penalty pursuant to this Code section may also be assessed the cost of collection. The cost of collection may also include reasonable attorneys' fees.
(f) All penalties and costs assessed under this Code section shall be tendered and made payable to the State Board of Workers' Compensation. All such penalties shall be deposited in the general fund of the state treasury.
