# § 34-9-354. Creation and appointment of board of trustees; duties; term of office of members and chairman; oath of office

(a) There is created a Board of Trustees of the Subsequent Injury Trust Fund composed of five members who shall serve for a term of six years each. One member shall be selected from each of the following fields: the insurance industry; rehabilitation professionals; management; labor; and the public at large. The Commissioner of Insurance and the executive director of the State Board of Workers' Compensation shall be ex officio members of the board of trustees. The ex officio members shall serve without compensation in an advisory capacity only.
(b) The board of trustees shall be appointed by the Governor, and each member shall serve until his successor is appointed and qualified.
(c) One member shall be appointed for a period of two years, one member for a period of three years, one member for a period of four years, one member for a period of five years, and one member for a period of six years. Thereafter, each member shall be appointed for a full term of six years or the remainder of an unexpired term.
(d) The duties of the board of trustees shall include, but not necessarily be limited to, the:
  (1) Appointment of the administrator of the fund and the setting of the compensation of the administrator;
  (2) Establishment of policies, procedures, rules, and regulations incidental to the fund's operations; and
  (3) Approval of the administrative budget of the fund.
(e) The board of trustees shall elect one of its members as chairman, who shall serve for a period of two years.
(f) The members of the board of trustees shall be required to take and subscribe before the Governor an oath to discharge the duties of their office faithfully and impartially. This oath shall be in addition to the oath required of all civil officers.
