# § 34-9-263. Compensation for permanent partial disability

(a)Definition. As used in this chapter, "permanent partial disability" means disability partial in character but permanent in quality resulting from loss or loss of use of body members or from the partial loss of use of the employee's body.
(b)Payment of benefits.
  (1) In cases of permanent partial disability, the employer shall pay weekly income benefits to the employee according to the schedule included within this Code section. These benefits shall be payable without regard to whether the employee has suffered economic loss as a result of the injury, except as herein provided.
  (2) Income benefits due under this Code section shall not become payable so long as the employee is entitled to benefits under Code Section 34-9-261 or 34-9-262.
  (3) If any employee is receiving benefits under this Code section and experiences a change in condition qualifying the employee for income benefits under Code Section 34-9-261 or 34-9-262, any payments under this Code section shall cease until further change of the employee's condition occurs.
(c)Schedule of income benefits. Subject to the maximum and minimum limitations on weekly income benefits specified in Code Section 34-9-261, the employer shall pay weekly income benefits equal to two-thirds of the employee's average weekly wage for the number of weeks determined by the percentage of bodily loss or loss of use times the maximum weeks as follows: Bodily LossMaximum Weeks(1) Arm ...................................225(2) Leg ...................................225(3) Hand ...................................160(4) Foot ...................................135(5) Thumb ...................................60(6) Index finger ...................................40(7) Middle finger ...................................35(8) Ring finger ...................................30(9) Little finger ...................................25(10) Great toe ...................................30(11) Any toe other than the great toe ...................................20(12) Loss of hearing, traumatic ................One ear ...................................75Both ears ...................................150(13) Loss of vision of one eye ...................................150(14) Disability to the body as a whole ...................................300
(d)Impairment ratings. In all cases arising under this chapter, any percentage of disability or bodily loss ratings shall be based upon Guides to the Evaluation of Permanent Impairment, fifth edition, published by the American Medical Association.
(e)Loss of more than one major member. Loss of both arms, hands, legs, or feet, or any two or more of these members, or the permanent total loss of vision in both eyes shall create a rebuttable presumption of permanent total disability compensable as provided in Code Section 34-9-261.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 221, § 8, eff. 7/1/2001.
