# § 34-9-420. Confidentiality of information

(a) All information, interviews, reports, statements, memoranda, and test results, written or otherwise, received by the employer through a substance abuse testing program are confidential communications, but may be used or received in evidence, obtained in discovery, or disclosed in any civil or administrative proceeding, except as provided in subsection (d) of this Code section.
(b) Employers, laboratories, medical review officers, employee assistance programs, drug or alcohol rehabilitation programs, and their agents who receive or have access to information concerning test results shall keep all information confidential. Release of such information under any other circumstance shall be solely pursuant to a written consent form signed voluntarily by the person tested, unless such release is compelled by an agency of the state or a court of competent jurisdiction or unless deemed appropriate by a professional or occupational licensing board in a related disciplinary proceeding. The consent form must contain at a minimum:
  (1) The name of the person who is authorized to obtain the information;
  (2) The purpose of the disclosure;
  (3) The precise information to be disclosed;
  (4) The duration of the consent; and
  (5) The signature of the person authorizing release of the information.
(c) Information on test results shall not be released or used in any criminal proceeding against the employee or job applicant. Information released contrary to this subsection shall be inadmissible as evidence in any such criminal proceeding.
(d) Nothing contained in this article shall be construed to prohibit the employer or laboratory conducting a test from having access to employee test information when consulting with legal counsel when the information is relevant to its defense in a civil or administrative matter.
