# § 34-9-384. General powers of board of trustees

(1) Not later than 90 days from its appointment, the board of trustees must make and submit to the board for approval such bylaws, rules, regulations, and resolutions as are necessary to carry out its responsibilities, including, but not limited to, the establishment of an application fee. The board of trustees may carry out its responsibilities directly or by contract or other instrument and may purchase such services, borrow money, purchase excess or liability insurance, levy penalties, fines, and assessments and collect such funds as it deems necessary to effectuate its activities and protect the members of the board of trustees and its administrator, agents, and employees. The board of trustees shall appoint, retain, and employ such persons as it deems necessary to achieve the purposes of the board of trustees. All expenses incurred pursuant to this provision shall be paid from the fund;
(2)
  (A) The board of trustees shall meet not less than quarterly and shall meet at other times upon the call of the chairperson, issued to the trustees in writing not less than 48 hours prior to the day and hour of the meeting, or upon a request for a meeting presented in writing to the chairperson not less than 72 hours prior to the proposed day and hour of the meeting and signed by at least a majority of the trustees, whereupon the chairperson shall provide notice issued in writing to the trustees not less than 48 hours prior to the meeting and shall convene the meeting at the time and place stated in the request.
  (B) Any trustee may participate in a meeting of the board of trustees by telephone conference or similar communications technology which allows all individuals participating in the meeting to hear and speak with each other. Participation in a meeting pursuant to this subparagraph shall constitute presence in person at such meeting;
(3) Four trustees shall constitute a quorum to transact business at any meeting, and the affirmative vote of four trustees shall be necessary for any action taken by the board of trustees. No vacancy shall otherwise impair the rights of the remaining trustees to exercise all of the powers of the board of trustees;
(4) The board of trustees shall serve without compensation, but each member shall be entitled to be reimbursed for necessary and actual expenses incurred in the discharge of his or her official duties; and
(5) The board of trustees shall have the right to bring and defend actions only in the name of the fund. The administrator, the trustees, and the trustees' employers, agents, and employees shall not be liable jointly or individually for matters arising from or out of their conduct of the affairs of the fund while acting in the scope of their employment.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 34, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 402,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 377,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2010.
