# § 20-4-150. [Repealed effective 7/1/2027] Definitions

(1) "Apprentice" means a person who is at least 15 years of age, except where a higher minimum age is required by law, who is employed in an eligible apprenticeable occupation, and is registered in Georgia with the United States Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship.
(2) "Apprenticeable occupation" means an occupation approved for apprenticeship by the United States Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship.
(3) "Apprenticeship program" means a program registered with the United States Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship that includes terms and conditions for the qualification, recruitment, selection, employment, and training of apprentices, including the requirement for a written apprenticeship agreement.
(4) "Apprenticeship sponsor" means:
  (A) Any entity operating an apprenticeship program; or
  (B) Any entity in whose name an apprenticeship program is being operated that is registered with or approved by the United States Department of Labor Office of Apprenticeship.
(5) "Board" means the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia.
(6) "Eligible apprenticeable occupation" means an apprenticeable occupation identified by the State Workforce Development Board pursuant to Code Section 34-14-3 as a high-demand career.
(7) "Employer sponsor" means an employer that coordinates with or is an apprenticeship sponsor and employs and trains an apprentice.
(8) "Office of Workforce Development" means the Technical College System of Georgia's Office of Workforce Development.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 554,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 728,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
