# § 20-4-43. Agreements for local facilities and employees; contracts or agreements with private firms

(a) Training programs under this article may be carried out on the basis of training agreements between local boards of education having postsecondary technical schools and the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia. Under such agreements, the local board of education may make available its postsecondary technical school facilities or temporary rented facilities and shall pay all instructional salaries in accordance with the salary schedule established by the state board in agreement with the local board of education without consideration of the salary schedule adopted for regular instructional personnel, provided that teachers and others employed in such training programs shall be classified as temporary employees and shall not be eligible for participation in the Teachers Retirement System. All expenses incurred by a local board of education under such agreement in providing the services prescribed by this article shall be reimbursed by the state from funds provided for this purpose.
(b) Training programs under this article may also be carried out pursuant to annual contracts or agreements between the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia and private industrial or business firms under rules and regulations adopted by the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia for such purpose. Any such training program carried out pursuant to any such contract shall be assigned to a state postsecondary technical school, an area postsecondary technical school, or the technical or vocational education division of a junior college operated in accordance with a joint agreement between the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia and the board of regents at the time a site is selected for such training program.
(c) Each training program under this article shall be based on a specific training needs analysis and included in a training plan which defines training and services to be provided.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
