# § 20-4-29. Salary and benefit plan of employees of schools formerly operated by local board of education or area postsecondary technical education board

(1) The salary earned as of July 1, 1987, or the date on which the system assumes governance of the postsecondary technical school, whichever is later, and the benefit plan in effect as of the same date, provided that such benefits can be obtained for comparable or less cost by the system. If such benefits cannot be obtained for comparable or less cost, such employees shall receive the benefits available to state employees employed by the system. The future salaries of employees making this choice shall be governed by policies established by the state board. Employees making this choice shall have no rights to salary increases accruing from past or future conditions or changes to their former compensation plans administered by local boards of education or area postsecondary technical education boards;
(2) The salary earned as of July 1, 1987, or the date on which the system assumes governance of the postsecondary technical school, whichever is later, and the benefits available to state employees employed by the system as of the same date, provided that the system may increase the salaries of employees to conform with the state board compensation plan in effect as of July 1, 1987, or the date on which the system assumes governance of the postsecondary technical school. Employees making this choice shall have their compensation administered in conformity with state board policy in accordance with the state board compensation plan; or
(3) Employees of postsecondary technical schools formerly operated by local boards of education or area postsecondary technical education boards who choose to be promoted or who request to transfer to different positions or locations shall be placed under the state board compensation plan and shall receive benefits as provided by paragraph (2) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2008.
