# § 20-4-15. Establishment of adult literacy programs; eligibility; office of adult literacy

(a) For the purposes of this article, literacy means a degree of proficiency in reading, writing, and other communication skills; in computation; and in reasoning that enables an individual to adapt to technological and other changes in society, compete in the job market, develop a sense of self-worth, and participate in the democratic process.
(b) The State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia shall establish adult literacy programs which provide for the attainment of reading, writing, and computational skills at the basic, general, and specialized levels of literacy. The state board shall determine the specific competencies concerning the skills and knowledge needed for each of the three levels of literacy; provided, however, that competencies at the specialized level contain the skills needed to qualify for a high school equivalency certificate.
(c) There is established an office of adult literacy which shall report directly to the commissioner. The office of adult literacy shall provide programs for the effective and efficient education of all Georgia adults eligible under the provisions of this Code section, including persons with disabilities and those for whom English is a second language. Subject to the availability of funding, all levels of literacy programs defined by this article shall be provided in each service delivery area to any eligible individual who requests them. With the ultimate goal of the elimination of illiteracy in the state, priority shall be given to providing all eligible adults with the opportunity to attain a general level of literacy.
(d) Individuals shall be eligible for adult literacy services who comply with other eligibility and attendance requirements as adopted by the state board and who:
  (1) Are high school graduates or have high school equivalency certificates and who are deficient in one or more areas of competency offered by adult literacy programs; provided, however, that no person shall be eligible for a high school equivalency certificate who has a high school diploma; or
  (2) Are at least 16 years of age and are not high school graduates but who are capable of attaining basic literacy skills as determined by policies established by the state board; provided, however, that an individual who is 16 or 17 years of age who has not graduated from high school shall present documented evidence that his or her school system has been notified that he or she has withdrawn from school.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
