# § 20-4-21. Tuition fees

(a) As used in this Code section, "student from a homeless situation" shall have the same meaning as provided for in Code Section 20-3-66.
(b) Any postsecondary technical school operated by a local board of education, an area postsecondary technical education board, or the Technical College System of Georgia shall be authorized to charge tuition fees in conformity with the rules and regulations promulgated by the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia; provided, however, that any student from a homeless situation shall be classified as in-state for tuition purposes. Upon the classification of such student as in-state for tuition purposes, such student shall maintain such classification until the earlier occurrence of the completion of a diploma, certificate, or degree at a unit of the Technical College System of Georgia or ten years.
(c) Tuition fees charged by postsecondary technical schools operated by local boards of education, area postsecondary technical education boards, and the Technical College System of Georgia shall not be used to supplant existing state or local funding but shall be used for budgeted improvements not funded from existing state and local sources.
(d) The Technical College System of Georgia shall not withhold from any postsecondary technical school which charges tuition fees as authorized by this Code section any funds which would otherwise be payable by the Technical College System of Georgia to such school by contract, grant, or otherwise.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 139,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
