# § 20-4-161. [Repealed effective 7/1/2027] Purpose; public service sponsorships; required information; contracts; awards; limitations

(a) Subject to appropriations of funds by the General Assembly for this purpose, the board, in coordination with the Department of Labor, the Department of Economic Development, the Department of Education, and the Office of Planning and Budget, shall establish and administer a program through the Office of Workforce Development to be called the Public Service Apprenticeship Program. The purpose of the Public Service Apprenticeship Program is to incentivize apprenticeship sponsors to establish new or grow existing registered apprenticeship programs in Georgia in order to support the growth of apprenticeship programs and expand high-quality work based learning experiences in state and local government fields and careers for persons in Georgia.
(b) A public service sponsor may apply to the board for the opportunity to enter into a contract to perform the requirements of conducting an apprenticeship program for a specific apprentice. Such contract shall require the public service sponsor's apprentice to successfully complete an apprenticeship program.
(c) The board shall provide upon request and on the Technical College System of Georgia's public website information about the Public Service Apprenticeship Program, the application, application instructions, and the application period established each year for contracts for services available under such program.
(d) Upon successful completion of the requirements of a contract under this article, the board shall provide a contract completion award to the public service sponsor. The contract completion award amount shall be determined based on the number of hours of education and training required for the successful completion of the apprenticeship under such apprenticeship program but shall not exceed $5,000.00 per apprentice.
(e) Each public service sponsor shall only be eligible to enter into contracts under this article for up to ten apprentices per year.
(f) An apprenticeship sponsor may assist with the application for and completion of an apprenticeship contract authorized by this article.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 560,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2024.
