# § 20-4-10. State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia established; members; officers

(a) There is established the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia, formerly known as the State Board of Technical and Adult Education, consisting of not fewer than one member from each congressional district and nine at-large members who shall be appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate for five-year terms. Board members in office on June 30, 2000, shall serve out the remainder of their respective terms. Upon expiration of those terms, the Governor shall appoint seven successors to two-year terms, six successors to three-year terms, and six successors to five-year terms. All subsequent appointments shall be for regular five-year terms. Members shall represent business, industry, or economic development. The board shall elect from its members a chairperson, vice chairperson, and such other officers as are considered necessary, each to serve for two-year terms. Officers may be elected to succeed themselves. Members shall serve until their successors are appointed; however, in the event of a vacancy on the board because of death, resignation, or removal for any reason other than expiration of a member's term, the Governor shall fill such vacancy in the same manner as the original appointment and the person so appointed shall serve for the unexpired term of office.
(b) As used in this article, the term "state board" means the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
