# § 20-4-151. [Repealed effective 7/1/2027] Purpose; employer partnerships; required information; contracts; awards; limitations

(a) Subject to appropriations of funds by the General Assembly for this purpose, the board, in coordination with the Department of Labor, the Department of Economic Development, the Department of Education, and the Office of Planning and Budget, shall establish and administer a program through the Office of Workforce Development to be called the High Demand Apprenticeship Program. The purpose of the High Demand Apprenticeship Program is to incentivize apprenticeship sponsors to establish new or grow existing registered apprenticeship programs in Georgia in order to support the growth of apprenticeship programs and expand high-quality work based learning experiences in high-demand fields and careers for persons in Georgia.
(b) An employer sponsor may apply to the board for the opportunity to enter into a contract to perform the requirements of conducting an apprenticeship program for a specific apprentice. Such contract shall require the employer sponsor's apprentice to successfully complete an apprenticeship program.
(c) The board shall provide upon request and on the Technical College System of Georgia's public website information about the High Demand Apprenticeship Program, the application, application instructions, and the application period established each year for contracts for services available under such program.
(d) Upon successful completion of the requirements of a contract under this article, the board shall provide a contract completion award to the employer sponsor. The contract completion award amount shall be determined based on the number of hours of education and training required for the successful completion of the apprenticeship under such apprenticeship program but shall not exceed:
  (1) $10,000.00 per apprentice for contracts entered into before July 1, 2024; and
  (2) $5,000.00 per apprentice for contracts entered into on or after July 1, 2024.
(e) Each employer sponsor shall only be eligible to enter into contracts under this article for up to:
  (1) Five apprentices per year through the end of Fiscal Year 2024; and
  (2) Ten apprentices per year beginning with the Fiscal Year 2025 and continuing each fiscal year thereafter.
(f) An apprenticeship sponsor may assist with the application for and completion of an apprenticeship contract authorized by this article.
(g) Beginning July 1, 2024, and continuing thereafter, the Office of Workforce Development shall be authorized to:
  (1) Provide initial funding for up to $2,500.00 per apprentice of the amount provided for in paragraph (2) of subsection (d) of this Code section; and
  (2) Provide funding to award employer sponsors up to $2,500.00 per apprentice 12 months after the start of his or her apprenticeship.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 560,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 728,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
