# § 20-4-16. Funding

(a) Any other Code section of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia shall annually determine the amount of funds needed to provide adult literacy and postsecondary technical education programs for businesses, industries, adults, and out-of-school youths and shall annually request that the Governor recommend that the General Assembly make such appropriations as are needed.
(b) Any other Code section of this article to the contrary notwithstanding, the Technical College System of Georgia is authorized to provide funds, appropriated by the General Assembly for this purpose, to local units of administration, as defined in Code Section 20-2-242, and to other state, regional, local, and private agencies to be used for adult literacy, career, occupational, and technical education programs.
(c) Adult literacy providers eligible to receive funds from the state board shall consist of those public and private entities which meet applicable public or private standards as determined by the state board. Such providers may include, but are not limited to, public and private schools, postsecondary technical schools, public and private colleges and universities, public libraries, community education programs, or businesses and industries. All public providers must meet public standards pursuant to Code Section 20-4-11 to be eligible to receive funds from the state board. Private providers may choose to meet either private or public standards pursuant to Code Section 20-4-11 and shall be eligible to receive funds from the state board in accordance with the standards which they meet.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
