# § 20-4-120. Creation of Commission; membership

(a) There is hereby created the Georgia Joint Defense Commission, which shall consist of 23 members as follows:
  (1) The chairperson of the Senate Veterans, Military and Homeland Security Committee;
  (2) The chairperson of the Senate Economic Development and Tourism Committee;
  (3) Four members of the House of Representatives and one member from the public at large to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
  (4) Two members of the Senate, one each from the majority party and the minority party, to be appointed by the President of the Senate;
  (5) One citizen member from each of the state's eight military installation regions to be appointed by the Governor;
  (6) The commissioner of the Department of Economic Development or his or her designee;
  (7) The chancellor of the University System of Georgia or his or her designee;
  (8) One representative of a defense industry contractor to be appointed by the President of the Senate;
  (9) One representative of a public or private organization engaged in military or defense research to be appointed by the Governor;
  (10) The adjutant general of the Georgia National Guard or his or her designee; and
  (11) The commissioner of the Technical College System of Georgia or his or her designee.
(b)
  (1) The members of the commission appointed pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (4) and (6), (7), (10), and (11) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall serve terms concurrent with their terms of office.
  (2) The members of the commission appointed pursuant to paragraphs (5), (8), and (9) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall serve four-year terms.
(c) The commission chairperson shall be the commissioner of the Department of Economic Development or his or her designee. The commission shall meet at such times and places as it deems necessary or convenient to perform its duties. The commission shall also meet upon the written call of the commission chairperson or of three of its members. The commission shall maintain minutes of its meetings and such other records as it deems necessary.
(d)
  (1) Members of the commission shall serve without compensation, but shall receive for each day of attendance at commission meetings a daily expense allowance in the amount specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21, plus reimbursement for actual transportation costs while traveling by public carrier, or the legal mileage rate for use of a personal car in connection with such attendance.
  (2) The daily expense allowance and reimbursement of transportation costs provided for by this subsection:
    (A) Shall be paid by funds appropriated to the Department of Economic Development; and
    (B) Shall not be received by any member of the commission for more than five days unless additional days are authorized by the Governor.
(e) Appointed members of the commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor, President of the Senate, or Speaker of the House of Representatives, in accordance with who appointed them.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 481,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 20, eff. 5/12/2019.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 399,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
