# § 20-4-25. Membership in retirement system - Professional personnel employed on or after July 1, 1985, and nonprofessional personnel employed after July 1, 1987

Newly hired professional personnel employed for the first time by the Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia, on or after July 1, 1985, and all full-time nonprofessional personnel employed for the first time after July 1, 1987, by postsecondary technical schools governed by the Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia, shall become members of the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia as a condition of employment, if otherwise eligible under laws, rules, and regulations, unless such personnel elect membership in the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia and are otherwise eligible under laws, rules, and regulations. Once such election is made by such personnel, the election is irrevocable during the tenure of employment with the Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia, or any postsecondary technical school governed thereby. Newly hired employees not eligible for membership in the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia or the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia shall become members of the Public School Employees Retirement System as a condition of employment, if otherwise eligible. The State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia shall provide by regulation for informing prospective employees of the option provided for by this Code section so that such personnel may choose membership in the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia or the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia or the Public School Employees Retirement System at the time of their employment.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 20, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
