# § 20-4-14. Technical College System of Georgia established; powers and duties

(a) There is established the Technical College System of Georgia, formerly known as the Department of Technical and Adult Education.
(b) The system shall exercise state level leadership, management, and operational control over schools, programs, and services authorized in this article and Article 3 of this chapter.
(c) The Technical College System of Georgia shall be empowered to:
  (1)
    (A) Approve programs below the baccalaureate level; provided, however, that any courses to be transferable to units of the University System of Georgia shall be approved by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 20-4-20.
    (B) Certify prior to the start of each semester all courses that have been approved by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia to be transferable to units of the university system.
    (C) Of the courses certified as provided for in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, identify the university system baccalaureate degree program or programs for which each such course has been approved by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia to be a degree prerequisite;
  (2) Receive and hold title to property, equipment, money, and materials;
  (3) Operate instructional services projects, also known as student live work projects, in those occupational areas which require specific skills or competency mastery that can best be obtained or demonstrated in a laboratory environment with clients, real items, or projects, including, but not limited to, carpentry, child care, aviation, welding, and automotive repair, and, in connection with such projects:
    (A) Receive, retain, and utilize donations, fees, and moneys generated as a result of the sale of such services or projects;
    (B) Retain any unexpended student live work funds from year to year;
    (C) Expend retained student live work funds for any student live work project or for the benefit of instructional programs at the technical institute; and
    (D) Acquire, improve, and sell real or personal property in connection with student live work projects, provided that all acquisitions and sales of real property in connection with student live work projects shall be approved by the state board;
  (4) Solicit and receive funds from the general public, corporate underwriters, and foundations;
  (5) Contract with other state, federal, or local public or private schools and other entities, individuals, or other legal entities for the provision of programmatic or administrative services or activities the system deems necessary; and
  (6) Administer and supervise programs in accordance with standards, rules, regulations, and policies of the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 552,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 20, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
