# § 20-4-121. Duties

(1) Advise the Governor and the General Assembly on issues relating to the military, the defense industry, defense research and technology, military families, and veterans affairs within the state and nationally;
(2) Make recommendations regarding policies and plans to support the long-term viability and development of the defense industry and the military, both active and civilian, in this state;
(3) Develop methods to assist defense-dependent communities in the design and execution of programs that enhance each community's relationship with military installations and the defense industry;
(4) Serve as a task force to seek advice on and prepare for potential base realignment or closure of military installations in the state;
(5) Develop and implement a plan to navigate potential base realignment or closure of military installations studies and proceedings; and
(6) Produce and distribute a detailed annual report no later than December 1 each year regarding the status of the state's defense industry, defense research efforts, and military installations, as well as a strategic plan for navigating any potential base realignment or closure of military installations in the state. Such annual reports shall be distributed to the Governor, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the General Assembly and shall be made publicly available.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 481,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 399,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
