# § 20-4-17. Agencies to receive federal funds; transfer of personnel to Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as Technical College System of Georgia

(a) The Department of Education is designated as the sole state agency to receive federal funds allotted to Georgia under acts of Congress appropriating federal funds for career, occupational, or technical education; provided, however, that those funds appropriated for the operation and management of postsecondary technical, adult, and industrial programs shall be placed under the jurisdiction and control of the Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia; provided, further, a proportionate share of those federal funds appropriated for planning, evaluation, program improvement, and other administrative and discretionary purposes shall be placed under the jurisdiction and control of such board. Those personnel positions authorized for fiscal year 1986 for the operation and management of postsecondary technical schools and adult centers, as well as a proportionate share of those positions authorized for fiscal year 1986 for planning, evaluation, program improvement, and other administrative and discretionary purposes, shall be transferred to the Technical College System of Georgia. Such employees shall retain all existing rights under the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia, and the rules of the State Personnel Board.
(b) The Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia, is designated as the sole state agency to receive federal funds allotted to Georgia under acts of Congress appropriating federal funds for adult literacy education programs. Those personnel positions authorized for fiscal year 1988 solely for the management, coordination, planning, evaluation, administration, and program improvement of adult literacy education programs, and associated office equipment and furniture, shall be transferred to the Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia. All officials and employees in such positions are also transferred to the Department of Technical and Adult Education, now known as the Technical College System of Georgia, and shall retain all existing rights under the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia, and the rules of the State Personnel Board.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-28, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 20, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 20, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
