# § 11-9-204. After acquired property; future advances

(a)After acquired collateral. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, a security agreement may create or provide for a security interest in after acquired collateral.
(b)When after acquired property clause not effective. Subject to subsection (b.1) of this Code section, a security interest does not attach under a term constituting an after acquired property clause to:
  (1) Consumer goods, other than an accession when given as additional security, unless the debtor acquires rights in them within ten days after the secured party gives value; or
  (2) A commercial tort claim.
(b.1)Limitation on subsection (b) of this Code section. Subsection (b) of this Code section does not prevent a security interest from attaching:
  (1) To consumer goods as proceeds under subsection (a) of Code Section 11-9-315 or commingled goods under subsection (c) of Code Section 11-9-336;
  (2) To a commercial tort claim as proceeds under subsection (a) of Code Section 11-9-315; or
  (3) Under an after-acquired property clause to property that is proceeds of consumer goods or a commercial tort claim.
(c)Future advances and other value. A security agreement may provide that collateral secures, or that accounts, chattel paper, payment intangibles, or promissory notes are sold in connection with, future advances or other value, whether or not the advances or value are given pursuant to commitment.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 600,§ 5-47, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
