# § 11-9-333. Priority of certain liens

(a)Year's support; property taxes; other state taxes; other taxes or judgments. Except as is expressly provided to the contrary elsewhere in this article and in subsection (b) of this Code section, a perfected security interest in collateral takes priority over each and all of the liens, claims, and rights described in Code Section 44-14-320, relating to the establishment of certain liens, as now or hereafter amended; former Code Section 53-7-91 as such existed on December 31, 1997, if applicable; and Code Section 53-7-40, relating to the priority of debts against the estate of a decedent, as now or hereafter amended; provided, nevertheless, that:
  (1) Year's support to the family, duly set apart in the collateral prior to the perfection of the subject security interest, takes priority over such security interest;
  (2) A lien for property taxes duly assessed upon the subject collateral, either prior or subsequent to the perfection of the subject security interest, takes priority over security interest;
  (3) A lien for all state taxes takes priority over such security interest, except where such security interest is perfected by filing a financing statement relative thereto prior to such time as the execution for such state taxes shall be filed in the manner provided by law; provided, nevertheless, that, with respect to priority rights between such tax liens and security interests where under this article the same are perfected other than by filing a financing statement, the same shall be determined as provided by law prior to January 1, 1964; and
  (4) A lien for other unpaid taxes or a duly rendered judgment of a court having jurisdiction shall have the same priority with regard to a security interest as it would have if the tax lien or judgment were a conflicting security interest within the meaning of Code Section 11-9-322 or an encumbrance within the meaning of Code Section 11-9-334, which conflicting security interest was perfected by filing or which encumbrance arose at the time the tax lien or judgment was duly recorded in the place designated by statute applicable thereto.
(b)Mechanics' liens on farm machinery. A mechanics' lien on farm machinery or equipment arising on or after July 1, 1985, shall have priority over any perfected security interest in such farm machinery or equipment unless a financing statement has been filed as provided in Code Section 11-9-501 and unless the financing statement describes the particular piece of farm machinery or equipment to which the perfected security interest applies. Such description may include the make, model, and serial number of the piece of farm machinery or equipment. However, such description shall be sufficient whether or not it is specific if it reasonably identifies what is described and a mistake in such description shall not invalidate the description if it provides a key to identifying the farm machinery or equipment.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 257,§ 10, eff. 1/1/2018.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 11, eff. 5/13/2011.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
