# § 11-9-518. Inaccurate or wrongfully filed record

(a)Statement with respect to record indexed under person's name. A person may file in the filing office an information statement with respect to a record indexed under the person's name if the person believes that the record is inaccurate or was wrongfully filed. The information statement shall be filed in the filing office of the county where the record was filed.
(b)Contents of statement under subsection (a) of this Code section. An information statement under subsection (a) of this Code section must:
  (1) Identify the record to which it relates by the file number assigned to the initial financing statement to which the record relates;
  (2) Indicate that it is an information statement; and
  (3) Provide the basis for the person's belief that the record is inaccurate and indicate the manner in which the person believes the record should be amended to cure any inaccuracy or provide the basis for the person's belief that the record was wrongfully filed.
(c)Statement by secured party of record. A person may file in the filing office an information statement with respect to a record filed there if such person is a secured party of record with respect to the financing statement to which the record relates and believes that the person that filed the record was not entitled to do so under subsection (d) of Code Section 11-9-509.
(d)Contents of statement under subsection (c) of this Code section. An information statement under subsection (c) of this Code section must:
  (1) Identify the record to which it relates by the file number assigned to the initial financing statement to which the record relates;
  (2) Indicate that it is an information statement; and
  (3) Provide the basis for the person's belief that the person that filed the record was not entitled to do so under subsection (d) of Code Section 11-9-509.
(e)Record not affected by information statement. The filing of an information statement does not affect the effectiveness of an initial financing statement or other filed record.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 223,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2013.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
