# § 11-9-805. Effectiveness of action taken before effective date

(a)Pre-effective date filing effective. The filing of a financing statement before July 1, 2013, is effective to perfect a security interest to the extent the filing would satisfy the applicable requirements for perfection under this article, as in effect on July 1, 2013.
(b)When pre-effective date filing becomes ineffective. Changes made to this article effective July 1, 2013, do not render ineffective an effective financing statement that, before July 1, 2013, is filed and satisfies the applicable requirements for perfection under the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided under the former provisions of this article in effect prior to July 1, 2013. However, except as otherwise provided in subsections (c) and (d) of this Code section and Code Section 11-9-806, the financing statement ceases to be effective:
  (1) If the financing statement is filed in this state, at the time the financing statement would have ceased to be effective under the former provisions of this article in effect prior to July 1, 2013; or
  (2) If the financing statement is filed in another jurisdiction, at the earlier of:
    (A) The time the financing statement would have ceased to be effective under the law of that jurisdiction; or
    (B) June 30, 2018.
(c)Continuation statement. The filing of a continuation statement on or after July 1, 2013, does not continue the effectiveness of a financing statement filed before July 1, 2013. However, upon the timely filing of a continuation statement on or after July 1, 2013, and in accordance with the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in this article, as in effect on July 1, 2013, the effectiveness of a financing statement filed in the same office in that jurisdiction before July 1, 2013, continues for the period provided by the law of that jurisdiction.
(d)Application of subparagraph (b)(2)(B) of this Code section to transmitting utility financing statement. Subparagraph (b)(2)(B) of this Code section shall apply to a financing statement that, before July 1, 2013, is filed against a transmitting utility and satisfies the applicable requirements for perfection under the law of the jurisdiction governing perfection as provided in the former provisions of this article, as in effect prior to July 1, 2013, only to the extent that the provisions of this article, as in effect on July 1, 2013, provide that the law of a jurisdiction other than the jurisdiction in which the financing statement is filed governs perfection of a security interest in collateral covered by the financing statement.
(e)Application of Part 5 of this article. A financing statement that includes a financing statement filed before July 1, 2013, and a continuation statement filed on or after July 1, 2013, is effective only to the extent that it satisfies the requirements of Part 5 of this article, as in effect on July 1, 2013, for an initial financing statement. A financing statement that indicates that the debtor is a decedent's estate indicates that the collateral is being administered by a personal representative within the meaning of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 11-9-503, as in effect on July 1, 2013. A financing statement that indicates that the debtor is a trust or is a trustee acting with respect to property held in trust indicates that the collateral is held in a trust within the meaning of paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 11-9-503, as in effect on July 1, 2013.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 223,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2013.
