# § 11-9-619. Transfer of record or legal title

(a)"Transfer statement." As used in this Code section, the term "transfer statement" means a record signed by a secured party stating:
  (1) That the debtor has defaulted in connection with an obligation secured by specified collateral;
  (2) That the secured party has exercised its postdefault remedies with respect to the collateral;
  (3) That, by reason of the exercise, a transferee has acquired the rights of the debtor in the collateral; and
  (4) The name and mailing address of the secured party, debtor, and transferee.
(b)Effect of transfer statement. A transfer statement entitles the transferee to the transfer of record of all rights of the debtor in the collateral specified in the statement in any official filing, recording, registration, or certificate of title system covering the collateral. If a transfer statement is presented with the applicable fee and request form to the official or office responsible for maintaining the system, the official or office shall:
  (1) Accept the transfer statement;
  (2) Promptly amend its records to reflect the transfer; and
  (3) If applicable, issue a new appropriate certificate of title in the name of the transferee.
(c)Transfer not a disposition; no relief of secured party's duties. A transfer of the record or legal title to collateral to a secured party under subsection (b) of this Code section or otherwise is not of itself a disposition of collateral under this article and does not of itself relieve the secured party of its duties under this article.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 600,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
