# § 11-9-521. Uniform form of written financing statement and amendment; authority may prescribe forms

(a)Initial financing statement form. Except for a reason set forth in subsection (b) of Code Section 11-9-516, a filing office that accepts written records may not refuse to accept a written initial financing statement in the form and format set forth in the final official text of the 2010 amendments to Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code promulgated by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, and such form and format are incorporated into this subsection by reference.
(b)Amendment form. Except for a reason set forth in subsection (b) of Code Section 11-9-516, a filing office that accepts written records may not refuse to accept a written record amending an initial financing statement if such record is in the form and format set forth in the final official text of the 2010 amendments to Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code promulgated by the American Law Institute and the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws, and such form and format are incorporated into this subsection by reference.
(c)Authority's forms. The authority may prescribe forms for initial financing statements and amendments. Subject to the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, all written financing statements and amendments must be presented for filing on forms prescribed by the authority.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 223,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462,§ 11, eff. 4/18/2002.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, §1, eff. 7/1/2001.
