# § 11-9-310. When filing required to perfect security interest or agricultural lien; security interests and agricultural liens to which filing provisions do not apply

(a)General rule; perfection by filing. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this Code section and subsection (b) of Code Section 11-9-312, a financing statement must be filed to perfect all security interests and agricultural liens.
(b)Exceptions; filing not necessary. The filing of a financing statement is not necessary to perfect a security interest:
  (1) That is perfected under subsection (d), (e), (f), or (g) of Code Section 11-9-308;
  (2) That is perfected under Code Section 11-9-309 when it attaches;
  (3) In property subject to a statute, regulation, or treaty described in subsection (a) of Code Section 11-9-311;
  (4) In goods in possession of a bailee which is perfected under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (d) of Code Section 11-9-312;
  (5) In certificated securities, documents, goods, or instruments which is perfected without filing, control, or possession under subsection (e), (f), or (g) of Code Section 11-9-312;
  (6) In collateral in the secured party's possession under Code Section 11-9-313;
  (7) In a certificated security which is perfected by delivery of the security certificate to the secured party under Code Section 11-9-313;
  (8) In controllable accounts, controllable electronic records, controllable payment intangibles, deposit accounts, electronic documents, investment property, or letter of credit rights which is perfected by control under Code Section 11-9-314;
  (8.1) In chattel paper which is perfected by possession and control under Code Section 11-9-314 A;
  (9) In proceeds which is perfected under Code Section 11-9-315; or
  (10) That is perfected under Code Section 11-9-316.
(c)Assignment of perfected security interest. If a secured party assigns a perfected security interest or agricultural lien, a filing under this article is not required to continue the perfected status of the security interest against creditors of and transferees from the original debtor.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 600,§ 5-56, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 470,§ 2-24, eff. 5/27/2010.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
