# § 11-9-108. Sufficiency of description

(a)Sufficiency of description. Except as otherwise provided in subsections (c), (d), and (e) of this Code section, a description of personal or real property is sufficient, whether or not it is specific, if it reasonably identifies what is described.
(b)Examples of reasonable identification. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, a description of collateral reasonably identifies the collateral if it identifies the collateral by:
  (1) Specific listing;
  (2) Category;
  (3) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (e) of this Code section, a type of collateral defined in this title;
  (4) Quantity;
  (5) Computational or allocational formula or procedure; or
  (6) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, any other method, if the identity of the collateral is objectively determinable.
(c)Supergeneric description not sufficient. A description of collateral as "all the debtor's assets" or "all the debtor's personal property" or using words of similar import does not reasonably identify the collateral.
(d)Investment property. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (e) of this Code section, a description of a security entitlement, securities account, or commodity account is sufficient if it describes:
  (1) The collateral by those terms or as investment property; or
  (2) The underlying financial asset or commodity contract.
(e)When description by type insufficient. A description only by type of collateral defined in this title is an insufficient description of:
  (1) A commercial tort claim; or
  (2) In a consumer transaction, consumer goods, a security entitlement, a securities account, or a commodity account.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
