# § 11-9-404. Rights acquired by assignee; claims and defenses against assignee

(a)Assignee's rights subject to terms, claims, and defenses; exceptions. Unless an account debtor has made an enforceable agreement not to assert defenses or claims and subject to subsections (b) through (e) of this Code section, the rights of an assignee are subject to:
  (1) All terms of the agreement between the account debtor and assignor and any defense or claim in recoupment arising from the transaction that gave rise to the contract; and
  (2) Any other defense or claim of the account debtor against the assignor which accrues before the account debtor receives a notification of the assignment signed by the assignor or the assignee.
(b)Account debtor's claim reduces amount owed to assignee. Subject to subsection (c) of this Code section and except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, the claim of an account debtor against an assignor may be asserted against an assignee under subsection (a) of this Code section only to reduce the amount the account debtor owes.
(c)Rule for individual under other law. This Code section is subject to law other than this article which establishes a different rule for an account debtor who is an individual and who incurred the obligation primarily for personal, family, or household purposes.
(d)Omission of required statement in consumer transaction. In a consumer transaction, if a record evidences the account debtor's obligation, law other than this article requires that the record include a statement to the effect that the account debtor's recovery against an assignee with respect to claims and defenses against the assignor may not exceed amounts paid by the account debtor under the record, and the record does not include such a statement, the extent to which a claim of an account debtor against the assignor may be asserted against an assignee is determined as if the record included such a statement.
(e)Inapplicability to health care insurance receivable. This Code section does not apply to an assignment of a health care insurance receivable.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 600,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
