# § 11-9-611. Notification before disposition of collateral

(a)"Notification date." As used in this Code section, the term "notification date" means the earlier of the date on which:
  (1) A secured party sends to the debtor and any secondary obligor a signed notification of disposition; or
  (2) The debtor and any secondary obligor waive the right to notification.
(b)Notification of disposition required. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, a secured party that disposes of collateral under Code Section 11-9-610 shall send to the persons specified in subsection (c) of this Code section a reasonable signed notification of disposition.
(c)Persons to be notified. To comply with subsection (b) of this Code section, the secured party shall send a signed notification of disposition to:
  (1) The debtor;
  (2) Any secondary obligor; and
  (3) If the collateral is other than consumer goods:
    (A) Any other person from which the secured party has received, before the notification date, a signed notification of a claim of an interest in the collateral;
    (B) Any other secured party or lienholder that, ten days before the notification date, held a security interest in or other lien on the collateral perfected by the filing of a financing statement that:
      (i) Identified the collateral;
      (ii) Was indexed under the debtor's name as of that date; and
      (iii) Was filed in the office in which to file a financing statement against the debtor covering the collateral as of that date; and
    (C) Any other secured party that, ten days before the notification date, held a security interest in the collateral perfected by compliance with a statute, regulation, or treaty described in subsection (a) of Code Section 11-9-311.
(d)Subsection (b) of this Code section inapplicable; perishable collateral; recognized market. Subsection (b) of this Code section does not apply if the collateral is perishable or threatens to decline speedily in value or is of a type customarily sold on a recognized market.
(e)Compliance with subparagraph (c)(3)(B) of this Code section. A secured party complies with the requirement for notification prescribed by subparagraph (c)(3)(B) of this Code section if:
  (1) Not later than 20 days or earlier than 30 days before the notification date, the secured party requests, in a commercially reasonable manner, information concerning financing statements indexed under the debtor's name in the office indicated in subparagraph (c)(3)(B) of this Code section; and
  (2) Before the notification date, the secured party:
    (A) Did not receive a response to the request for information; or
    (B) Received a response to the request for information and sent a signed notification of disposition to each secured party or other lienholder named in that response whose financing statement covered the collateral.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 600,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
