# § 11-9-526. Rules

(a)Adoption of filing office rules. The authority shall adopt and publish in print or electronically rules to implement this article, including rules to administer, maintain, and modify the central indexing system. The filing office rules must be consistent with this article.
(b)Harmonization of rules. To keep the filing office rules, practices of the filing offices, and practices of the authority in harmony with the rules and practices in other jurisdictions that enact substantially this part, and to keep the technology used by the filing offices and the authority compatible with the technology used in other jurisdictions that enact substantially this part, the authority, so far as is consistent with the purposes, policies, and provisions of this article, in adopting, amending, and repealing filing office rules, shall:
  (1) Consult with filing offices in other jurisdictions that enact substantially this part; and
  (2) Consult the most recent version of the Model Rules promulgated by the International Association of Corporate Administrators or any successor organization; and
  (3) Take into consideration the rules and practices of, and the technology used by, filing offices in other jurisdictions that enact substantially this part.
(c)Notification system for farm products. The authority shall not be authorized to adopt rules to implement a notification system for farm products in conformity with the requirements of Section 1324 of the federal Food Security Act of 1985, P.L. 99-198, as now in effect or as hereafter amended, and shall not be authorized to request certification of such notification system by the secretary of the United States Department of Agriculture.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
