# § 22-1-10. Duties of condemnor prior to exercise of eminent domain; rights of condemnee; exceptions

(a) Prior to exercising the power of eminent domain, a governmental condemnor shall:
  (1) Not less than 15 days before any meeting at which a resolution approving the exercise of eminent domain is to be considered, post a sign, if possible, in the right of way adjacent to each property that is subject to the proposed use of the eminent domain power stating the time, date, and place of such meeting;
  (2) Attempt to serve the condemnee personally with notice of the meeting not less than 15 days before any meeting at which such resolution is to be considered, unless service is acknowledged or waived by the condemnee. If the attempted service is unsuccessful, service of notice may be satisfied by mail or statutory overnight delivery to the property owner at the address of record and, if different from the property owner, to the parties in possession of the property, return receipt requested;
  (3) Ensure that any notice that is required by law to be published be placed in the county legal organ, but such notice shall not be published in the legal notices section of such newspaper; and
  (4) Ensure that any meeting at which such resolution is to be considered and voted on shall commence after 6:00 P.M. Any such resolution shall specifically and conspicuously delineate each parcel to be affected.
(b) A nongovernmental condemnor shall, with respect to its exercise of the power of eminent domain in general, by action of the governing body or chief executive officer of the condemnor designate who is authorized to approve the exercise of the power of eminent domain by the condemnor and provide a method for documenting the time of the exercise of final approval of a particular exercise of the power of eminent domain by that individual or group of individuals. Such a condemning authority shall with respect to any particular exercise of the power of eminent domain:
  (1) Not less than 15 days before the documented time of approval of the exercise of eminent domain, post a sign, if possible, in the right of way adjacent to each property that is subject to the proposed use of the eminent domain power stating:
    (A) that the property is subject to a proposed condemnation which may be initiated after 15 days from the date of posting;
    (B) the date of posting; and
    (C) the name, business address, and telephone number of the condemnor;
  (2) Not less than 15 days before the documented time of approval of the exercise of eminent domain serve the condemnee personally with notice of the proposed condemnation stating:
    (A) that the property is subject to a proposed condemnation which may be initiated after 15 days from the date of service;
    (B) the date of service; and
    (C) the name, business address, and telephone number of the condemnor. If the attempted service is unsuccessful, service of notice may be satisfied by mail or statutory overnight delivery to the property owner at the address of record and, if different from the property owner, to the parties in possession of the property, return receipt requested; and
  (3) Provide the condemnee with an opportunity to meet with the individual or group of individuals having the power of documented approval or a representative of such individual or individuals.
(c) The condemnee may in writing waive any rights of the condemnee under this Code section.
(d) Any notice required to be personally served or mailed under this Code section shall be accompanied by a written statement of the rights that the condemnee possesses including but not limited to the right to notice, damages, hearing, and appeal of any award entered by the special master as described in this title. The written statement of rights shall also include the right to bring a motion pursuant to Code Section 22-1-11 as well as a sample motion. The Department of Community Affairs shall promulgate written notice of rights forms that shall be used for purposes of this subsection. The Department of Community Affairs shall promulgate different notice forms for each of the types of condemnation proceedings authorized by law. This subsection shall not become effective until the Department of Community Affairs has promulgated the written notice of rights forms contemplated under this subsection and such forms shall be promulgated no later than January 1, 2007.
(e) This Code section shall not apply to condemnations for the purposes of constructing or expanding one or more electric transmission lines, to condemnations pursuant to Code Section 46-8-121, or to any condemnations under Title 32.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 444,§ 5, eff. 4/4/2006.
