# § 13-10-3. Determining Georgia residency for businesses; preferences; adherence to policies and procedures of State Construction Manual; public works construction contracts

(a) For the purpose of determining residency under this Code section, a Georgia resident business shall include any business that regularly maintains a place from which business is physically conducted in Georgia for at least one year prior to any bid or proposal submitted pursuant to this Code section or a new business that is domiciled in Georgia which regularly maintains a place from which business is physically conducted in Georgia; provided, however, that a place of business shall not include a post office box, site trailer, or temporary structure.
(b) Whenever the state contracts for the doing of a public work, materialmen, contractors, builders, architects, engineers, and laborers resident in the State of Georgia are to be granted the same preference over materialmen, contractors, builders, architects, engineers, and laborers resident in another state in the same manner, on the same basis, and to the same extent that preference is granted in awarding bids for the same goods or services by such other state to materialmen, contractors, builders, architects, engineers, and laborers resident in such other state over materialmen, contractors, builders, architects, engineers, and laborers resident in the State of Georgia. However, these requirements shall in no way impair the ability of the state to compare the quality of materials proposed for purchase and to compare the qualifications, character, responsibility, and fitness of materialmen, contractors, builders, architects, engineers, and laborers proposed for employment in its consideration of the purchase of materials or employment of persons. This subsection shall not apply to transportation projects for which federal aid funds are available.
(c) All state agencies, authorities, departments, commissions, boards, and similar entities shall adhere to the policies and procedures contained in the State Construction Manual for project management and procurement of, and contracting for, design, construction, and other project related professional services for all state owned buildings in Georgia funded by state bonds or other state revenue. The State Construction Manual shall be jointly edited and posted on a state website by the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission and the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia and shall be updated on a periodic basis to reflect evolving owner needs and industry best practices after consultation with other state agency and industry stakeholders.
(d)
  (1) To the extent permitted by law, no state agency, authority, department, commission, board, or similar entity that contracts for public works construction shall, in its bid documents, specifications, project agreements, or other controlling documents for a public works construction contract:
    (A) Require or prohibit bidders, offerors, contractors, subcontractors, or material suppliers to enter into or adhere to prehire agreements, project labor agreements, collective bargaining agreements, or any other agreement with one or more labor organizations on the same or other related construction projects; or
    (B) Discriminate against, or treat differently, bidders, offerors, contractors, subcontractors, or material suppliers for becoming or refusing to become or remain signatories or otherwise to adhere to agreements with one or more labor organizations on the same or other related construction projects.
  (2) Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit bidders, offerors, contractors, subcontractors, or material suppliers from voluntarily entering into agreements described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (3) The head of a governmental entity may exempt a particular public works construction contract from the requirements of any or all of the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection if the governmental entity finds, after public notice and a hearing, that special circumstances require an exemption to avert an imminent threat to public health or safety. A finding of special circumstance under this paragraph shall not be based on the possibility or presence of a labor dispute concerning the use of contractors or subcontractors who are nonsignatories to, or otherwise do not adhere to, agreements with one or more labor organizations or concerning employees on the particular project who are not members of or affiliated with a labor organization.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 194,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2013.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 421,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
