# § 13-10-90. Definitions

(1) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Labor.
(2) "Contractor" means a person or entity that enters into a contract for the physical performance of services.
(3) "Federal work authorization program" means any of the electronic verification of work authorization programs operated by the United States Department of Homeland Security or any equivalent federal work authorization program operated by the United States Department of Homeland Security to verify employment eligibility information of newly hired employees, commonly known as E-Verify, or any subsequent replacement program.
(4) "Physical performance of services" means any performance of labor or services for a public employer using a bidding process or by contract wherein the labor or services exceed $2,499.99; provided, however, that such term shall not include any contract between a public employer and an individual who is licensed pursuant to Title 26 or Title 43 or by the State Bar of Georgia and is in good standing when such contract is for services to be rendered by such individual.
(5) "Public employer" means every department, agency, or instrumentality of this state or a political subdivision of this state.
(6) "Subcontractor" means a person or entity having privity of contract with a contractor, subcontractor, or sub-subcontractor and includes a contract employee or staffing agency.
(7) "Sub-subcontractor" means a person or entity having privity of contract with a subcontractor or privity of contract with another person or entity contracting with a subcontractor or sub-subcontractor.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 27,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 252,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 421,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2007.
