# § 51-1-56. Civil recovery available to victims of human trafficking; statute of limitations; relief sought by Attorney General

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Criminal action" means the investigation or prosecution of an offense that is pending final adjudication in a trial court.
  (2) "Perpetrator" means a person or entity that knowingly benefits, financially or by receiving anything of value, from participation in a venture or scheme which such person or entity knew or should have known involved a violation of Code Section 16-5-46.
(b) An individual who is a victim of a violation of Code Section 16-5-46 shall have a cause of action against any perpetrator of said violation and may recover damages and reasonable attorney's fees.
(c) Any action filed under subsection (b) of this Code section shall be stayed during the pendency of any criminal action arising out of the same occurrence in which the individual is the victim.
(d) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, an action may be brought under subsection (b) of this Code section within ten years after the:
  (1) Cause of action arose; or
  (2) Victim reaches 18 years of age, if the victim was a minor at the time of the alleged violation.
(e) Whenever the Attorney General has reasonable cause to believe that an interest of the citizens of this state has been or is threatened or adversely affected by a perpetrator, the Attorney General shall have a cause of action against such perpetrator on behalf of the state to obtain appropriate relief.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 28,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
