# § 51-1-43. "Roller Skating Safety Act of 1993."

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "Roller Skating Safety Act of 1993."
(b) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Operator" means a person or entity who owns or controls or who has operational responsibility for a roller skating center.
  (2) "Roller skater" means a person wearing roller skates while that person is in a roller skating center for the purpose of roller skating.
  (3) "Roller skating center" means a building, facility, or premises which provides an area specifically designed to be used for roller skating by the public.
  (4) "Spectator" means a person who is present in a roller skating center only for the purpose of observing skating activity, whether recreational or competitive.
(c) Each operator of a roller skating center shall be required to:
  (1) Post the duties of roller skaters and spectators as prescribed in this Code section in conspicuous places;
  (2) Comply with the safety standards ordinarily accepted in the roller skating rink industry;
  (3) Maintain roller skating equipment and roller skating surfaces according to the safety standards cited in paragraph (2) of this subsection; and
  (4) Maintain the stability and legibility of all required signs, symbols, and posted notices.
(d) While in a roller skating center, each roller skater shall do all of the following:
  (1) Maintain reasonable control of his or her speed and course at all times;
  (2) Read all posted signs and warnings;
  (3) Maintain a proper lookout to avoid other roller skaters and objects;
  (4) Accept the responsibility for knowing the range of his or her own ability to negotiate the intended direction of travel while on roller skates and to skate within the limits of that ability; and
  (5) Refrain from acting in a manner which may cause injury to others.
(e) Each person who participates in roller skating in a roller skating center accepts the risks that are inherent in that activity insofar as the risks are obvious and necessary.
(f) A roller skater, spectator, or operator who violates the provisions of this Code section shall be liable in a civil action for damages for that portion of the loss or damage resulting from the violation.
(g) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to relieve an operator from exercising ordinary diligence in his or her operational responsibility.
