# § 47-20-34. Introduction of bill and preliminary consideration by committee

(a) Any retirement bill having a fiscal impact may be introduced in the General Assembly only during the regular session which is held during the first year of the term of office of members of the General Assembly. Any such retirement bill may be passed by the General Assembly only during the regular session which is held during the second year of the term of office of members of the General Assembly.
(b) When a retirement bill having a fiscal impact is introduced, it shall be assigned by the presiding officer of the Senate or the House, as the case may be, to the respective Senate or House standing committee on retirement. If a majority of the total membership of the respective committee is opposed to the bill on its merits, no actuarial investigation provided for in Code Section 47-20-36 shall be necessary, and the bill shall not be reported out by the committee and shall not be adopted or considered by the House or Senate. If a majority of the committee wishes to consider the bill further and votes in favor of an actuarial investigation of the bill, an actuarial investigation shall be required as provided in Code Section 47-20-36. Except as otherwise provided by subsection (c) of this Code section, no retirement bill having a fiscal impact may be reported out of the committee to which it is assigned or may be considered or adopted by the House or Senate unless an actuarial investigation of the bill is made.
(c) The committee to which a retirement bill having a fiscal impact is assigned following its introduction may at any time amend the bill to become a nonfiscal retirement bill. If the bill is so amended, an exact copy of the amended version shall be submitted by the chairman of the committee to the state auditor. If the state auditor issues a written certification that the committee amendment has converted the status of the bill to a nonfiscal retirement bill, the bill shall be a nonfiscal retirement bill for all purposes under this chapter as of the date of the state auditor's certification. Only the committee to which a retirement bill having a fiscal impact is originally assigned following its introduction may convert the bill to a nonfiscal retirement bill as authorized in this subsection.
(d) Any bill requiring a public retirement system to divest or refrain from investing in specific investments or classes of investments may only be introduced as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section and, in addition to the certification of the state auditor required by Code Section 47-20-32, such legislation shall be accompanied at the time of introduction by a statement from the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, or the Speaker of the House of Representatives describing the primary goal the bill is designed to achieve. Such bill shall also have attached at the time of introduction a fiscal analysis from each public retirement system affected stating the cost of compliance with the legislation and the anticipated annual fiscal losses which will be incurred as a result of complying with the legislation.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 770,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2008.
