# § 47-20-21. Triennial actuarial investigations; penalties for violations shown; list of local systems not in conformance reported triennially

(a) The retirement system administrator of each retirement system of a political subdivision shall comply fully with the requirements of Code Section 47-1-3 requiring the employment of an actuary and the completion of actuarial investigations once every three years. In addition to the other requirements specified by Code Section 47-1-3 for such actuarial investigations, each such investigation shall express the actuary's opinion, which shall be supported by such analysis as the actuary determines necessary, of the status of the retirement system with regard to the minimum funding standards specified in Code Section 47-20-10. Each such actuarial investigation shall also include an analysis of each change in or amendment to the retirement system since the previous investigation and shall identify any change or amendment which granted a benefit increase.
(b) If an actuarial investigation or a financial report which is submitted to the state auditor under Code Section 47-1-3 shows that an amendment or change was made in a retirement system of a political subdivision granting a benefit increase in violation of subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-20 or shows that a retirement system of a political subdivision is not in conformity with the requirements of subsection (b) of Code Section 47-20-20, it shall be the duty of the state auditor to notify the state treasurer; and it shall be the duty of the state treasurer to withhold any state funds payable to the applicable political subdivision until the actuary of the applicable retirement system certifies to the state auditor and to the state treasurer that employer contributions to each retirement system of the political subdivision are in conformity with the minimum funding standards specified in Code Section 47-20-10.
(c) The report on the condition of local retirement systems submitted to the Governor and to members of the General Assembly pursuant to Code Section 47-1-4 shall include a separate list of each retirement system of each political subdivision which is not in conformity with the minimum funding standards specified by Code Section 47-20-10 and a separate attachment giving a full explanation of any action taken pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
