# § 47-20-10.1. Other post-employment benefits

(a) Political subdivisions are authorized to establish plans to provide for payment of other post-employment benefits, as defined by Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statements Number 43 and Number 45 for their eligible present and future retirees and other related expenses as described herein. Such benefits may be prefunded by irrevocable trusts or other authorized funding mechanisms subject to the financial reporting, disclosure, and actuarial requirements of Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statements Number 43 and Number 45 or any subsequent Governmental Accounting Standards Board updates or statements that may be applicable. Except as otherwise provided under subsection (c) of this Code section, the plan and assets of any trust or fund so established may be under the governance and investment authority of a retirement system maintained by the political subdivision or other board of trustees established for such purpose; provided, however, that the assets of any other post-retirement benefit plan, trust, or fund shall be separately accounted for and separate records shall be maintained. The prefunded amounts shall be available without fiscal year limitations for other post-employment benefits, as defined by Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statements Number 43 and Number 45, and administration costs. All employer contributions, plan participant contributions, appropriations, earnings, and reserves for the payment of obligations under the plan shall be credited to such trust or fund. The amounts remaining in such trust or fund, if any, after other post-employment benefit expenses and administration costs have been paid in any year shall be retained in such trust or fund for future payments until the satisfaction of all plan liabilities under the trust or fund for other post-employment benefits. All prefunded amounts shall be used solely for the payment of plan benefits and administrative costs and for no other purpose.
(b) Prefunded assets of whatever kind or nature of any other post-employment benefit plan or trust, and the earnings or proceeds derived from such investments or assets, are limited to paying other post-employment benefits and administrative costs and are declared to be public property and exempt from taxation by this state, or by any political subdivision of this state, and exempt from levy and sale, garnishment, attachment, or any other process whatsoever.
(c) Employers who are eligible to participate in the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System created by Chapter 5 of this title may establish or participate in another post-employment benefit plan, trust, or fund under the governance and investment authority of the board of trustees of the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System, notwithstanding any provision of this Code section or Code Section 47-20-10 to the contrary. The assets of any such plan, trust, or fund under the governance and investment authority of the board of trustees of the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System may be maintained as part of the same investment pool as the system retirement fund and invested pursuant to the applicable provisions of Article 7 of Chapter 20 of Title 47, notwithstanding any provision of subsection (c) of Code Section 47-5-28 to the contrary, so long as the assets of the plan, trust, or fund and the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System retirement fund are separately accounted for and separate records are maintained for the plan, trust, or fund and the Georgia Municipal Employees Benefit System retirement fund.

## History

Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 23,§ 2, eff. 5/11/2007.
