# § 47-20-20. Freezing of benefits and other provisions; amount of annual employer contribution

(a) In the case of a retirement system of a political subdivision, unless excepted by Code Section 47-20-13, neither the local governing authority by ordinance or resolution or other action nor the retirement system administrator shall take any action on or after January 1, 1984, to grant a benefit increase under any retirement system of the political subdivision until annual employer contributions to each retirement system of the political subdivision are in conformity with the minimum funding standards specified by Code Section 47-20-10. The local governing authority of a political subdivision shall not take any action after January 1, 1984, to create or establish any new retirement system until all existing retirement systems of that political subdivision are being funded in conformity with the minimum funding standards specified by Code Section 47-20-10. This limitation shall not prohibit a local governing authority from creating or establishing a new retirement system as a successor to the existing retirement system or systems of the political subdivision if the resulting new system and the remaining obligations under the previously existing system or systems are funded in accordance with the minimum funding standards specified by Code Section 47-20-10. The membership of such a successor retirement system need not be confined to the membership of the previously existing retirement system or systems.
(b) Unless excepted by Code Section 47-20-13, after January 1, 1984, the annual employer contribution to each retirement system of a political subdivision shall be in an amount equal to or greater than the minimum annual employer contribution required by Code Section 47-20-10.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 58, eff. 7/1/2010.
