# § 47-20-37. Consideration of bill on the floor; approval of amendments by state auditor; effect of passing bill in violation of this article

(a) When a retirement bill having a fiscal impact has had an actuarial investigation pursuant to Code Section 47-20-36, the bill may be considered at the next regular session of the General Assembly. If the bill as originally introduced was not changed by the committee and the original version was submitted to the state auditor for an actuarial investigation, then the original version of the bill is the only one, except as otherwise provided by subsection (b) of this Code section, which may be considered by any committee or by the House or Senate. If the original bill was substituted by the committee and the substitute version was the one submitted to the state auditor, then that substitute bill is the only one, except as otherwise provided by subsection (b) of this Code section, which may be considered by any committee or by the House or Senate.
(b) After completion of an actuarial investigation, any amendment to a retirement bill having a fiscal impact shall be out of order and shall not be allowed either by a committee or by the House or Senate, except for a nonfiscal or a reduction in cost amendment. Any amendment to a retirement bill having a fiscal impact shall be submitted to the state auditor by the chairperson of the committee, if a committee amendment, or by the presiding officer of the Senate or House if the amendment was made by the Senate or House. If the state auditor certifies in writing that the amendment is a nonfiscal amendment or if the amendment results in a reduction in cost and the state auditor provides an actuarial investigation as required in subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-36, then the bill as amended, with the state auditor's certification or actuarial investigation attached to the original of the amendment, may continue in the legislative process. If the state auditor will not issue such a certification for the amendment or if there is no actuarial study showing the reduced cost of the amendment, the bill's progress in the legislative process will end, and the bill shall not be considered further by either the House or Senate and, if passed by the General Assembly, the bill shall not become law and shall stand repealed in its entirety on the first day of July immediately following its enactment.
(c) An amendment to a retirement bill having a fiscal impact which is prohibited by subsection (b) of this Code section may be withdrawn by the committee which made the amendment, if a committee amendment, or by the Senate, if that body made the amendment, or by the House, if that body made the amendment. If the amendment is withdrawn, the bill may continue in the legislative process as any other bill, unless it is subsequently amended, and, in that event, this Code section shall apply to the subsequent amendment.
