# § 2-14-133. Rules and regulations; enforcement of article

(a) The Commissioner is authorized to prescribe rules or regulations which may include, but not necessarily be limited to, quality standards, grades, packing, handling, labeling, and marketing practices for the marketing of onions in this state, including the requirements that all Vidalia onions be initially packed only in the Vidalia onion production area and that no Vidalia onion may be shipped from the Vidalia onion production area in bulk except as may be authorized by rule, and such other regulations as are necessary to administer properly this article. The Commissioner may also prescribe rules or regulations establishing a registration, inspection, and verification program for the production and marketing of Vidalia onions in this state and, after hearing and public comment, further limiting the Vidalia onion production area as defined in paragraph (5) of Code Section 2-14-131. Pursuant to such rules, regulations, and conditions as may be prescribed by the Commissioner, the Commissioner is authorized to grant variances in the production area requirements of this article to any producer who has produced in Georgia, marketed, and labeled onions of the Vidalia onion variety as Vidalia onions prior to January 31, 1986. Such rules or regulations may include within the definition of Vidalia onion variety as defined in paragraph (6) of Code Section 2-14-131 other hybrids or varieties of onions which may be developed and which have characteristics similar to the Vidalia onion variety. All onions sold must conform to the prescribed standards and grades and must be labeled accordingly.
(b) The Commissioner and his agents and employees are authorized to enter any premises or other property where onions are produced, stored, sold, offered for sale, packaged for sale, transported, or delivered to inspect such onions for the purpose of enforcing the provisions of this article and the rules and regulations promulgated under this article.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 193, § 2, eff. 7/1/2003.
