# § 2-14-80. Standard for computing board feet of lumber

(a) The legal standard for calculating the number of board feet in a log or in any number of logs in this state shall be the Scribner Decimal C log rule or scale.
(b) Any sale or contract in which settlement is based on the number of board feet in a log or any number of logs, whether such sale or contract is verbal or written, and in which the method of computing the number of board feet is not stated shall be construed as being based entirely on Scribner's Decimal C log rule or scale. This Code section shall not affect any contract or sale entered into prior to March 13, 1957.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed as preventing any person from using, in lieu of the legal log rule articulated in subsection (a) of this Code section, the actual measurement of lumber after it has been sawed as the basis for settlement in any sale or contract involving the necessity for determining the number of board feet. However, if the lumber is to be measured after sawing, it must be so stated in the sale or contract.
(d) In scaling or measuring the diameter and length of logs, any log as long as 18 feet and not as long as 34 feet shall be measured as two logs and any log 34 feet or more in length shall be measured as three or more logs. Such a division in length shall be done so as to figure logs as of nearly equal lengths as possible and at the same time so as to use even feet in lengths, unless otherwise provided by contract.
(e) All fractions of inches in diameter shall be figured as to the nearest whole inch, but when several logs have fractions of one-half inch in the measurement of diameters, these fractions shall be distributed as near evenly as possible by adding and subtracting such fractions to and from the diameters in order to figure such diameters in whole inches, unless otherwise provided by contract.
