# § 16-10-20.1. Filing false documents

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "document" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form and shall include, but shall not be limited to, liens, encumbrances, documents of title, instruments relating to a security interest in or title to real or personal property, or other records, statements, or representations of fact, law, right, or opinion.
(b) Notwithstanding Code Sections 16-10-20 and 16-10-71, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
  (1) Knowingly file, enter, or record any document in a public record or court of this state or of the United States knowing or having reason to know that such document is false or contains a materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation; or
  (2) Knowingly alter, conceal, cover up, or create a document and file, enter, or record it in a public record or court of this state or of the United States knowing or having reason to know that such document has been altered or contains a materially false, fictitious, or fraudulent statement or representation.
(c) Any person who violates subsection (b) of this Code section shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment of not less than one nor more than ten years, a fine not to exceed $10,000.00, or both.
(d) This Code section shall not apply to a court clerk, registrar of deeds, or any other government employee who is acting in the course of his or her official duties.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 626,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 582,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
