# § 16-10-52. Escape

(a) A person commits the offense of escape when he or she:
  (1) Having been convicted of a felony or misdemeanor or of the violation of a municipal ordinance, intentionally escapes from lawful custody or from any place of lawful confinement;
  (2) Being in lawful custody or lawful confinement prior to conviction, intentionally escapes from such custody or confinement;
  (3) Having been adjudicated of a delinquent act or a juvenile traffic offense, or as a child in need of services subject to lawful custody or lawful confinement, intentionally escapes from lawful custody or from any place of lawful confinement;
  (4) Being in lawful custody or lawful confinement prior to adjudication, intentionally escapes from such custody or confinement; or
  (5) Intentionally fails to return as instructed to lawful custody or lawful confinement or to any residential facility operated by the Georgia Department of Corrections after having been released on the condition that he or she will so return; provided, however, such person shall be allowed a grace period of eight hours from the exact time specified for return if such person can prove he or she did not intentionally fail to return.
(a.1) Revocation of probation for conduct in violation of any provision of subsection (a) of this Code section shall not preclude an independent criminal prosecution under this Code section based on the same conduct.
(b)
  (1) A person who, having been convicted of a felony, is convicted of the offense of escape shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years.
  (2) Any person charged with a felony who is in lawful confinement prior to conviction or adjudication who is convicted of the offense of escape shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years.
  (3) Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, a person who commits the offense of escape while armed with a dangerous weapon shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than 20 years.
  (4) Any other person convicted of the offense of escape shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 4-8, eff. 1/1/2014.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 20, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
