# § 16-10-24.1. Obstructing or hindering firefighters

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "firefighter" means:
  (1) Any person who is employed as a professional firefighter on a full-time basis for at least 40 hours per week by any county, municipal, or state fire department when such person has responsibility for preventing and suppressing fires, protecting life and property, enforcing municipal, county, or state fire prevention codes, or enforcing any law or ordinance pertaining to the prevention or control of fires;
  (2) Any volunteer firefighter as the term "volunteer firefighter" is defined by paragraph (7) of Code Section 47-7-1 as said paragraph (7) exists on January 1, 1988; or
  (3) Any person employed as a professional firefighter on a full-time basis for at least 40 hours per week by a person or corporation which has a contract with a municipality or county to provide fire prevention and fire-fighting services for such municipality or county when such person has responsibility for preventing and suppressing fires, protecting life and property, enforcing municipal or county fire prevention codes, or enforcing any municipal or county ordinances pertaining to the prevention and control of fires.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, a person who knowingly and willfully obstructs or hinders any firefighter in the lawful discharge of the firefighter's official duties is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c) Whoever knowingly and willfully resists, obstructs, or opposes any firefighter in the lawful discharge of the firefighter's official duties by offering or doing violence to the person of such firefighter is guilty of a felony and shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years.

## History

2002 Ga. Laws 952, § 11, eff. 7/1/2002, and 2002 Ga. Laws 787, § 4, eff. 7/1/2002, purported to amend § 16-10-24 by changing "fireman" to "firefighter"; however, that word does not appear in § 16-10-24. Section 16-10-24.1 is apparently the section meant to be amended. The publisher has inserted the appropriate term in brackets in the text above.
