# § 15-5-81. Advisory council to commission

(a) There shall be an advisory council to the Georgia Courts Automation Commission. The advisory council shall consist of the director of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation or the director's designee, the commissioner of corrections or the commissioner's designee, the commissioner of community supervision or the commissioner's designee, the commissioner of public safety or the commissioner's designee, the chairperson of the State Board of Pardons and Paroles or the chairperson's designee, the director of the Administrative Office of the Courts or the director's designee, the director of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council or the director's designee, the director of the Governor's Office for Children and Families or the director's designee, and the executive director of the Georgia Technology Authority or the executive director's designee.
(b) The members of the advisory council shall be notified of and entitled to attend all meetings of the commission and shall be afforded an opportunity to review and comment on all proposed official actions of the commission other than actions relating solely to the internal organization and internal affairs of the commission.
(c) All members of the advisory council shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for travel and other expenses in carrying out their official duties in the same manner as other state officials and employees. Members of the advisory council who are state officials or employees shall be reimbursed for such expenses from funds of their respective state departments and agencies. All members of the advisory council who are not state officials or employees shall be reimbursed for such expenses from funds appropriated or otherwise available to the judicial branch of state government.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-6, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 564,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 562,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 970, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
