# § 15-5-112. [Effective 7/1/2025] Restriction of public access; enforcement

(a) Within 30 days of receipt of written notice that a judge or justice of the United States, this state, or any county or municipality of this state has been elected or appointed, the Administrative Office of the Courts shall provide written notice to each state or local government entity determined by the Administrative Office of the Courts to possess personally identifiable information that directs such entity to restrict access to such personally identifiable information pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section.
(b) Within 30 days of receipt of written notice that a judge or justice of the United States, this state, or any county or municipality of this state has resigned, retired, or been removed, the Administrative Office of the Courts shall provide written notice to each state or local government entity determined by the Administrative Office of the Courts to possess personally identifiable information that informs such entity that the restriction required pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section is no longer applicable.
(c) Notwithstanding Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 to the contrary, within 30 days of receipt of written notice from the Administrative Office of the Courts pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, a state or local government entity that has received such notice shall restrict personally identifiable information from publicly available content and public posting or display unless such entity has:
  (1) Obtained written consent from the protected person that his or her phone number and address may be made available to the general public; or
  (2) Received notice pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section that a judge or justice of the United States, this state, or any county or municipality thereof has resigned, retired, or been removed.
(d) Any protected person may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction against any officer or employee of the state or local government entity in his or her individual capacity for failure to comply with subsection (c) of this Code section. Any relief granted by such action shall be limited to injunctive relief.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 584,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2025.
