# § 15-5-24. Duties of Administrative Office of the Courts

(1) Consult with and assist judges, administrators, clerks of court, and other officers and employees of the court pertaining to matters relating to court administration and provide such services as are requested;
(2) Examine the administrative and business methods and systems employed in the offices related to and serving the courts and make recommendations for necessary improvement;
(3) Compile statistical and financial data and other information on the judicial work of the courts and on the work of other offices related to and serving the courts, which data and information shall be provided by the courts;
(4) Analyze data relating to civil cases and on or before the first day of October each year provide such data, analysis, or both data and analysis to the courts and agencies of the judicial branch, agencies of the executive branch, and the chairpersons of the Senate Judiciary Committee and the House Committee on Judiciary;
(5) Examine the state of the dockets and practices and procedures of the courts and make recommendations for the expedition of litigation;
(6) Act as fiscal officer and prepare and submit budget estimates of state appropriations necessary for the maintenance and operation of the judicial system;
(7) Formulate and submit recommendations for the improvement of the judicial system;
(8) Perform such additional duties as may be assigned by the Judicial Council; and
(9) Prepare and publish in print or electronically an annual report on the work of the courts and on the activities of the Administrative Office of the Courts.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 240,§ 2-3, eff. 1/1/2018.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
