# § 15-5-26. Proposals for pilot programs involving nonuniform courts

(a) Any proposal for a pilot program of limited duration involving courts which are not uniform within their classes, as authorized by Article VI, Section I, Paragraph X of the Constitution, shall be submitted to the Judicial Council for review and evaluation before it is considered by the General Assembly.
(b) Such a proposal may be submitted by any of the following:
  (1) The Governor;
  (2) A member of the General Assembly;
  (3) The chief judge of one of the courts affected by such proposal; or
  (4) The governing authority of a county affected by such proposal.
(c) Such a proposal shall be submitted to the Judicial Council during the year preceding the year in which a bill establishing a pilot program is considered by the General Assembly.
(d) The Judicial Council shall adopt policies and procedures regarding the submission and evaluation of such proposals which shall set out, at a minimum, the form and contents of the submission, the recommended date for submission, and internal procedures for developing recommendations regarding proposals. The Judicial Council shall make copies of its policies and procedures regarding submissions available upon request to members of the General Assembly, members of the judiciary, county governing authorities, and the public.
(e) The Judicial Council shall submit to the General Assembly a report evaluating each such proposal submitted and recommending adoption, adoption after modification, or rejection of each such proposal by the General Assembly. The Judicial Council shall provide the report or reports to the members of the General Assembly no later than December 31 of the year prior to consideration of a bill establishing any pilot projects in the General Assembly.
