# § 15-5-80.1. Georgia Courts Automation Commission

(a) There shall be a Georgia Courts Automation Commission. The commission created in this article shall be a successor to the Georgia Courts Automation Commission created by 1990 Resolution Act No. 98; HR 849; Ga. L. 1990, p. 979.
(b) The commission shall consist of 11 members. One member shall be the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Georgia or his designee; and the remaining members shall be appointed by the Chief Justice as follows:
  (1) One Judge of the Court of Appeals of Georgia;
  (2) Three superior court judges;
  (3) One superior court clerk;
  (4) One state court judge;
  (5) One juvenile court judge;
  (6) One probate court judge;
  (7) One magistrate court judge; and
  (8) One municipal court judge. All members of the commission shall serve at the pleasure of the Chief Justice.
(c) The Chief Justice shall appoint the chairman of the commission, and the commission shall elect a vice chairman who shall preside in the absence of the chairman. The commission may elect such other officers as it deems advisable and shall establish such quorum, attendance, and other rules as it deems necessary for the most efficient operation of the commission. The commission may meet at such times and places within the state as the commission deems necessary.
(d) All members of the commission shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for travel and other expenses in carrying out their official duties in the same manner as other state officials and employees. Members of the commission who are state officials or employees shall be reimbursed for such expenses from funds of their respective state departments and agencies. All members of the commission who are not state officials or employees shall be reimbursed for such expenses from funds appropriated or otherwise available to the judicial branch of state government.

## History

Renumbered from 15-5-80 and amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 15, eff. 4/7/2005.
