# § 50-18-32. Production and sale of reports to citizens; liability for not having reports in stock; opportunity to explain failure to panel

(a) In addition to the reports to be furnished to the state as previously provided, the publisher shall produce a sufficient number for sale to the citizens of the state. The publisher shall at all times during his contract keep on hand in the capital city of the state an adequate supply of the reports such publisher has published during that contract period for sale to the citizens of the state and to the state when it so requires.
(b) In the event the publisher does not have in stock any report published during the contract period that is needed by the state or any citizen of the state, the reporter shall, upon notice to the publisher, declare the contract breached; and the publisher shall become liable to the state for a sum, to be assessed by the reporter, payable to the state for each week that the report is not available but in no event shall the total of the sum assessed by the reporter exceed the amount of the publisher's bond. In the event of undue delay, the reporter may declare the contract ended. The bond given by the publisher shall be liable for any sum assessed.
(c) The reporter, prior to declaring the contract breached, shall seek the advice of a panel composed of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, the Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals, an appointee of the Governor who is not the Attorney General, the executive counsel, and the legislative counsel. The publisher shall have an opportunity to appear before this panel to explain the reason for his failure to have in stock a particular volume and to avoid liability for any sum which may be assessed against him. The panel can decide to provide the publisher an extended period of time to produce the required volumes of reports, or it may declare the publisher liable for a sum assessed by the reporter; and, if the reporter has so requested, it may declare the contract with the publisher ended. In any case, the decision of the panel is final.
