# § 50-18-29. Method of printing and binding reports; notice of deficiencies and time for cure; advice of panel regarding quality of reports

(a) The publisher, with the approval of the reporter, may choose the most efficient and advantageous method of producing the reports so long as the style and quality of the reports are not compromised by any change in the method of printing and binding the reports.
(b) Should the work of printing and binding the reports or any part of them be done improperly, it shall be the duty of the reporter to advise the publisher by written notice of the deficiencies in the reports. The publisher shall have 60 days to make the necessary corrections. In the event the publisher fails to cure the deficiencies, the reporter may declare the contract breached and ended and assess the publisher for any damages the state may realize for the breach. The bond given by the publisher shall be liable for any sum assessed.
(c) The reporter may seek, and must seek if requested in writing by the publisher, advice regarding the quality of the reports, such advice to be obtained from a panel composed of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court, the Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals, an appointee of the Governor who is not the Attorney General, the executive counsel, and the legislative counsel. The publisher and the reporter shall be allowed to appear before the panel and present any material relevant to the quality of the reports. The decision of the panel is final.
