# § 50-18-155. [Effective 7/1/2026] Exceptions

(a) If a participant notifies a governmental entity in writing, on a form prescribed by the office, that he or she is a participant, such entity shall not knowingly disclose the participant's confidential address, unless:
  (1) The confidential address is subject to sharing or dissemination pursuant to court order;
  (2) The confidential address is subject to sharing or dissemination in connection with an active investigation or inspection of a potential health code, building code, fire code, or local ordinance violation allegedly committed by the participant;
  (3) The confidential address is needed to provide public assistance or other government services to a participant, or to allocate financial responsibility for such assistance or services;
  (4) The confidential address is necessary to perform a governmental entity's health, safety, or welfare functions, including the provision of emergency 9-1-1 services, the assessment and investigation of child or vulnerable adult abuse or neglect, or the assessment or inspection of services or locations for compliance with health and safety standards;
  (5) The confidential address is necessary to aid an active law enforcement investigation of the participant upon verification that the disclosure will aid the law enforcement agency in responding to an emergency situation or a criminal complaint or conducting an investigation; or
  (6) The person to whom the confidential address is disclosed also resides, is employed at, or goes to school at the confidential address.
(b) Except as may be otherwise provided by law, a confidential address disclosed pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section may be used only for the purposes authorized in this Code section and may not be further disclosed to any other person or governmental entity. Governmental entities receiving or sharing a confidential address pursuant to this Code section shall establish procedures to protect the confidential address from further disclosure.
(c) When a participant presents his or her designated address to any person, such designated address shall be accepted as the address of the participant. The person shall not require the participant to submit any other address either as a substitute address or in addition to the designated address, or as a condition of receiving a service or benefit, unless the service or benefit would be impossible to provide without knowledge of the participant's confidential address.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 582,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2026.
