# § 50-18-78. Removal of law enforcement officer's personally identifiable information from public records

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Law enforcement officer" means a sheriff, deputy sheriff, police officer, policeman, peace officer, officer or member of the Department of Public Safety, or other officer or official who has the power of arrest and who is responsible for enforcing the criminal laws of the federal government or the state or its political subdivisions.
  (2) "Local government" means any county or municipality of this state.
  (3) "Personally identifiable information" means the residential address or phone number of an individual and the individual's spouse, if applicable.
(b) Within 30 days after receiving a written request by any law enforcement officer, a local government shall remove the personally identifiable information of such law enforcement officer from all property records that are publicly available on any internet website of the local government. Relief for a law enforcement officer whose personally identifiable information is not removed within 30 days of such request shall be limited to injunctive relief against the county employee who had a ministerial duty to remove such personally identifiable information.
(c) On or before January 1, 2024, each local government shall provide a form for a law enforcement officer to use when requesting removal of personally identifiable information, which may include a process for verification of employment as a law enforcement officer. Such form shall be made available by the local government on its internet website.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 34,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
