# § 50-18-100. Lifting restrictions on access to confidential, classified, or restricted records after 75 years; earlier lifting

(a) This Code section applies only to those records:
  (1) That are confidential, classified, or restricted by Acts of the General Assembly or may be declared to be confidential, classified, or restricted by future Acts of the General Assembly, unless the future Acts specifically exempt these records from this Code section; and
  (2) That have been, or are in the future, deposited in the Georgia State Archives or in other state operated archival institutions because of their value for historical research.
(b) All restrictions on access to records covered by this Code section are lifted and removed 75 years after the creation of the record.
(c) Restrictions on access to records covered by this Code section may be lifted and removed as early as 20 years after the creation of the record on unanimous approval in writing of the State Records Committee.
(d) Applications requesting that the State Records Committee review and consider lifting such restrictions may be made either by the director of the division or by the head of the agency that transferred the record to the archives.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code to the contrary, a date of birth or maiden name contained in genealogical research notes, papers, records, and publications donated to or acquired by the division shall be open to any qualified researcher.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 749, § 31, eff. 7/1/2002.
