# § 50-18-153. [Effective 7/1/2026] Compliance by governmental and non-governmental entities; service of process

(a) Upon a participant providing a copy of his or her address confidentiality card to a governmental entity and requesting that such governmental entity only use his or her designated address, the governmental entity shall only use the participant's designated address.
(b) If a participant's employer, or a school or institution of higher education attended by the participant, is not a governmental entity, the participant may request that the employer, school, or institution of higher education use the designated address as the participant's address.
(c) A utility owned by a governmental entity shall not release any confidential address.
(d) A participant may also use the designated address as the participant's work address.
(e) The office on each day that it is open for business shall place all first-class, registered, or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery received on behalf of a participant into an envelope or package and mail such envelope or package to the participant at his or her confidential address. The office may contract with the United States Postal Service for special rates for any mail forwarded pursuant to this subsection. Service by mail pursuant to this subsection of court papers, other than service of process, shall be deemed complete three business days after the office forwards the mail to the participant.
(f) If a person intends to serve process on a participant and makes an inquiry with the office to determine if the individual is a participant, the office shall only confirm that the individual is a participant and, except as otherwise allowed pursuant to this article, shall not disclose further information regarding the participant. If process has been forwarded to a participant pursuant to subsection (e) of this Code section, the office shall disclose the date of mailing to the person attempting to serve the participant.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 582,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2026.
