# § 50-18-150. [Effective 7/1/2026] Definitions

(1) "Confidential address" means a participant's residential address or other address or addresses that could be used to physically locate the participant, including a school attended by the participant or the participant's place of employment.
(2) "Designated address" means the publicly available address provided by a participant to the office.
(3) "Governmental entity" means:
  (A) Every state department, agency, board, bureau, office, commission, public corporation, and authority;
  (B) Every county, municipal corporation, school district, or other political subdivision of this state;
  (C) Every department, agency, board, bureau, office, commission, authority, or similar body of each such county, municipal corporation, or other political subdivision of the state; and
  (D) Every city, county, regional, or other authority established pursuant to the laws of this state.
(4) "Office" means the office of the Secretary of State.
(5) "Participant" means an individual who is currently certified to participate in the program pursuant to this article.
(6) "Program" means the victim centered address confidentiality program established by this article.
(7) "Victim advocate" means an employee or volunteer of the office who serves victims of domestic violence, dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, or human trafficking and who has completed training pursuant to Code Section 50-18-152 to assist individuals in completing applications for the program.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 582,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2026.
