# § 50-18-31. Procedure for distribution of reports; discontinuance or resumption of distribution

(1) The reporter shall place all orders for the reports with the publisher;
(2) All volumes distributed within this state to the state or to any of its subordinate departments, agencies, or political subdivisions, or to public officers or public employees within the state, shall be the property of the appropriate public officer or employee during his or her term of office or employment and shall be turned over to his or her successor; and the reporter shall take and retain a receipt from each such public officer or employee acknowledging this fact. The reporter shall at all times use the most economical method of shipment consistent with the safety and security of the volumes; and
(3) The reporter shall make distributions of the reports in accordance with the following: Archives, State...............................................one copyCourt of Appeals of Georgia.......................23 copiesExecutive Department..................................one copyHouse Judiciary Committee.......................one copyLaw, Department of ......................................six copiesLegislative Counsel......................................one copyJudge of the Probate Court (each county)..................... one copyEach probate court shall place a written order with the reporter on or before October 1. A written order from a probate court shall remain in effect until changed by a subsequent written order. The reporter shall not provide reports to any probate court without a written order.ReporterAssistant reporter's desk.........................one copyCopyright.....................................three copiesReporter's clerical staff........................one copyReporter's desk........................................one copySecretary of State.......................................one copySenate Judiciary Committee....................one copySuperior Courts........................................one copyDistrict Attorneys (each).............................one copyJudges (each).....................................one copyEach superior court judge shall place a written order with the reporter on or before October 1. A written order from a superior court judge shall remain in effect until changed by a subsequent written order. The reporter shall not provide reports to any superior court judge court without a written order.Supreme Court of Georgia ..................... 18 copiesUniversity of Georgia Law School Library ..................... four copiesWorkers' Compensation, State Board of ..................... six copiesThe reporter may add additional recipients or additional copies to named recipients upon written order from the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 8, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 456,§ 8, eff. 5/6/2008.
