# § 31-3-11. Direction and supervision of staff

Each employee of a county board of health whose duties include enforcing those environmental health laws of this state or environmental health regulations of that board of health relating to septic tanks or individual sewage management systems shall be subject to the direction and supervision of the district director of environmental health, although the hiring and termination from employment of such employee shall be subject to the director of that county board of health. The employment activities of such employee with regard to environmental health shall be reported to the director of environmental health through the district director of environmental health at least quarterly. The director of environmental health may recommend to that director of that county board of health personnel actions, including but not limited to termination, which the director of environmental health deems appropriate for such employee's failure or refusal to comply with the direction of the director of environmental health in the carrying out of the environmental health employment duties of such employee. As used in this subsection, the term "director of environmental health" means the director of environmental health of the Department of Public Health.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 383,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-35, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
