# § 31-3-12.1. Contracts between county boards; authorization for and provisions applicable to county board of health serving as community service board

(a) In addition to any other power authorized by law, the county governing authority may authorize the county board of health to enter into a contract with the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities or a community mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases service board created under Chapter 2 of Title 37 to provide certain mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases services based on the contractual agreement between the parties. In the event that the county governing authority exercises the authority granted by this subsection, the county board of health shall appoint a director for mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases or a supervisor of the specific service which is being provided by the county board of health, whichever is applicable, who shall meet the requirements established by this subsection. The director for mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases, or the service supervisor, shall not be required to be a physician and shall be a person other than the director of the county board of health appointed pursuant to Code Section 31-3-12. Further, such director for mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases or such supervisor of the specific service shall report directly to the county board of health and shall have no formal reporting relationship with the director of the county board of health.
(b) Pursuant to subsection (e) of Code Section 37-2-6, a county governing authority may authorize the membership of a county board of health to serve as the membership of a community mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases service board, provided that the county governing authority, the county board of health, and any other affected county governing authority act pursuant to subsection (e) of Code Section 37-2-6. If the membership of a county board of health exercises the authority granted pursuant to this subsection and Chapter 2 of Title 37 to serve as the membership of a community service board, the membership of the county board of health shall constitute the membership of the community service board and, at any time that such members are exercising duties and powers related to mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases, the community service board shall be an independent agency and shall operate in accordance with the provisions of Title 37 as a community service board. Notwithstanding any provisions of law to the contrary, a community service board and a county board of health which have the same membership may contract with each other, provided that any such contract is approved by the department and the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities prior to adoption.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 383,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-9, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 544,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 1-3, eff. 7/1/2002.
