# § 31-3-12. Appointments of district health director; qualifications; vacancy; duties

(a) The commissioner shall appoint a district health director for each health district to serve as the chief executive officer of each local health department in that district. The county boards of health of the constituent counties shall, at the call of the commissioner, meet in joint session to approve, by a majority vote, the selection of a director appointed by the commissioner to serve such boards in common. A county board of health is authorized to appoint one of its members to represent the board at a joint meeting for this purpose.
(b) The district health director must meet the requirements and rules of the State Personnel Board and either be licensed to practice medicine under Chapter 34 of Title 43, or if not so licensed, at a minimum, have a master's degree in public health or another related field. If not licensed, the district health director shall select a physician who is licensed to practice medicine under Chapter 34 of Title 43 to serve as the chief medical officer overseeing the clinical programs within local health departments. The district health director may also serve as the chief medical officer if he or she is licensed to practice medicine under Chapter 34 of Title 43 and meets the requirements of the rules of the State Personnel Board. The district health director shall serve under the supervision of the commissioner and is subject to personnel action by the commissioner. The district health director shall designate such personnel necessary for the appropriate performance of duties and proper exercise of powers subject to the budget.
(c) Upon a vacancy of a district health director for any reason, the commissioner is authorized to appoint an interim district health director without county board of health approval until a permanent district health director is appointed and approved by vote of the county boards of health. If a permanent district health director is not appointed or approved within one year of vacancy, the department shall provide quarterly updates to the county boards of health on recruitment efforts until a permanent district health director is appointed and approved.
(d) Subject to the policies and directives of the county board of health and the policies and directives of the multiple county districts served, the director shall perform the functions and exercise the powers set forth in this chapter except the power to adopt bylaws and to adopt rules and regulations and may delegate the powers and authority conferred, or any part thereof, to one or more individuals as he or she may deem appropriate. The director shall devote his or her entire time to the service of the county board of health and to the multiple county districts, where created, and shall be vigilant in procuring compliance with its rules and regulations and with Georgia health laws and rules and regulations adopted thereunder that have application within the county and district. He or she shall make reports to the county board of health and the agency in charge of the multiple county district in such manner and form and with such frequency as required by it and shall also report to the department in such manner, detail, and form as the department may specify.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 383,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
