# § 43-4B-2. Application

(a) The provisions of this chapter shall not be construed to apply to any match, contest, or exhibition:
  (1) In which the contestants are all amateurs; and
  (2) Which is governed or authorized by:
    (A) U.S.A. Boxing;
    (B) The Georgia High School Athletic Association;
    (C) The National Collegiate Athletic Association;
    (D) Amateur Athletic Union;
    (E) Golden Gloves;
    (F) Team Georgia Amateur Wrestling;
    (G) USA Wrestling;
    (H) National High School Coaches Association;
    (I) North American Sport Karate Association;
    (J) International Sport Kick Boxing/Karate Association;
    (K) World Kick Boxing Association;
    (L) United States Kick Boxing Association;
    (M) International Sport Combat Federation;
    (N) Professional Karate Commission;
    (O) International Kick Boxing Federation; or
    (P) The local affiliate of any organization listed in this paragraph.
(b) The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to any matches, contests, or exhibitions of professional wrestling or to a promoter or organization that promotes, organizes, or governs such matches, contests, or exhibitions where such promoter or organization is a corporation that, at the time of such matches, contests, or exhibitions:
  (1) Is registered under the federal Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
  (2) Has total assets of not less than $25 million.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 43, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 325,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 222, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
