# § 43-4B-3. Georgia Athletic and Entertainment Commission; membership; medical advisory panel; reimbursement of members

(a) The State Boxing Commission in existence immediately prior to July 1, 2001, is continued in existence subject to the provisions of this chapter. On and after July 1, 2001, the name of such commission shall be the Georgia Athletic and Entertainment Commission. The membership of the commission shall continue unchanged except as otherwise expressly provided by this chapter.
(b) The commission shall be composed of five members appointed by the Governor. Each member of the commission shall be appointed for a term of four years and until his or her successor is appointed. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired terms under the same procedures and requirements as appointments for full terms.
(c) The commission shall elect a chairperson from among its membership for a term of one year. The commission may elect a vice chairperson from its membership for a term of one year. Any member serving as chairperson shall be eligible for successive election to such office by the commission.
(d) The commission's medical advisory panel, appointed by the Governor, shall consist of four persons licensed to practice medicine in Georgia pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 34 of this title. They shall represent the specialties of neurology, ophthalmology, sports medicine, and general medicine. The medical advisory panel shall advise and assist the commission and its staff regarding issues and questions concerning the medical safety of applicants or licensees, including, but not limited to, matters relating to medical suspensions. The medical advisory panel may meet separately from the commission to discuss and formulate recommendations for the commission in connection with medical safety. Members of the medical advisory panel shall not be counted in determining a quorum of the commission and shall not vote as commission members.
(e) Each member of the commission and the medical advisory panel shall be reimbursed for expenses and travel as provided for members of various professional licensing boards in subsection (f) of Code Section 43-1-2.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 325,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 222, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
