# § 43-4B-21. Injunctions; penalty for violations of article; unarmed combat

(a) Whenever the Attorney General has reasonable cause to believe that a person is engaged in a violation of this article, the Attorney General may bring a civil action requesting such relief, including a permanent or temporary injunction, restraining order, or other order against such person as the Attorney General determines to be necessary to restrain the person from continuing to engage in, sanction, promote, or otherwise participate in a professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing in violation of this article.
(b)
  (1) Any manager, promoter, matchmaker, or licensee who knowingly violates or coerces or causes any other person to violate any provision of this article shall, upon conviction, be imprisoned for not more than one year or fined not more than $20,000.00, or both.
  (2) Any member or employee of the commission or any person who administers or enforces this chapter or rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter who knowingly violates Code Section 43-4B-14 or Code Section 43-4B-15 shall, upon conviction, be imprisoned for not more than one year or fined not more than $20,000.00, or both.
  (3) Any professional boxer who knowingly violates any provision of this article except Code Section 43-4B-15 shall, upon conviction, be fined not more than $1,000.00 for each violation.
  (4) Any professional boxer who violates the provisions of Code Section 43-4B-15 may be punished by a fine not to exceed $25,000.00 together with a percentage of the purse not to exceed 15 percent for each violation.
(c) Unarmed combat, as defined in Code Section 43-4B-1, is a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature.
(d) Promotion of unarmed combat, as defined in Code Section 43-4B-1, is a misdemeanor for the first offense; a high and aggravated misdemeanor for the second offense; and a felony for the third and subsequent offenses, punishable upon conviction by a fine not to exceed $10,000.00 or imprisonment not to exceed two years, or both such fine and imprisonment.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 325,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 347, § 28, eff. 6/4/2003.
