# § 43-4B-10. Promoter's license and match permit requirements; applications; performance bond; fees

(a) No person shall promote or hold a professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing within this state without first applying for and obtaining a promoter's license from the commission. Licenses shall be issued annually and shall expire on December 31 of each calendar year.
(b) Promoters shall apply to the commission for a license required by subsection (a) of this Code section on a form provided by the commission. The application shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee not to exceed $250.00 in the form of a cashier's check made out to the commission. The application shall also be accompanied by a performance bond in an amount and under such conditions as the commission may require.
(c) No person shall promote or hold a professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing within this state without first applying for and obtaining a match permit from the commission for such professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing in addition to the license required by subsection (a) of this Code section. Each application for a match permit shall be on a form provided by the commission and shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee not to exceed $250.00 in the form of a cashier's check made out to the commission. The commission may charge an additional match fee in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the commission to implement the provisions of this article.
(d) The commission may, prior to issuing any match permit, require a performance bond in addition to that required in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(e) The commission may refund any portion of the match permit fee in excess of $250.00 to any person who paid such excess fee in the event the professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing for which such fees were paid is not held.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 222, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
