# § 43-4B-51. Fees

(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, the annual fee for licensure of organizations subject to this article is $1,000.00.
(b) As used in this subsection, the term "show" includes all matches, contests, or exhibitions held at the same venue on the same date and included in the same admission fee if an admission fee is charged. Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, the maximum permit fee for each show authorized or governed by an organization licensed in accordance with this article is $250.00. The maximum permit fee for each match, contest, or exhibition that is not a component of a show and is authorized by an organization licensed in accordance with this article is $250.00, except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section. Such fee shall be paid to the commission on or before the date of the match, contest, or exhibition. The commission may provide by rule for a refund of a portion of the fee if the match, contest, or exhibition is not held.
(c) For organizations authorizing or governing matches, contests, or exhibitions of wrestling as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (21) of Code Section 43-4B-1, the annual fee for licensure is $100.00. There shall be no permit fee for matches, contests, or exhibitions of wrestling as defined in such subparagraph. Organizations subject to this subsection shall make reports to the commission in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the commission.
(d) The annual fee for a promoter's license for promoters of martial arts matches, contests, or exhibitions shall be $500.00.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 325,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2005.
