# § 43-4B-11. Required licenses for boxers and nonboxing participants; prerequisites to licenses

(a) Prior to participating in a professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing supervised by the commission, referees, judges, timekeepers, matchmakers, boxers, managers, trainers, and each person who assists a boxer immediately before and after a match, contest, or exhibition of boxing and between rounds during a match, contest, or exhibition of boxing shall apply for and be issued licenses. Licenses shall be issued annually and shall expire on December 31 of each calendar year. Each applicant shall make application on a form provided by the commission and pay an annual license fee not to exceed $250.00. Any boxer who has been licensed by the commission during a previous year shall be deemed to be an applicant for a license in any year for which such boxer has entered into a written contract to participate in a professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing in this state upon the date of entering into such a contract. Any party to such a contract may notify the commission that such a contract has been signed.
(b) The commission shall issue a license under this Code section only if:
  (1) The commission has determined to the best of its ability that the applicant has the training or skills necessary to perform in a manner appropriate to the license;
  (2) The applicant has complied with all applicable requirements of this chapter and any rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter; and
  (3) The commission or its designated representative has determined from information provided by the applicant and from any medical evaluation required by the commission that the health, welfare, and physical safety of the applicant will not be unduly jeopardized by the issuance of the license.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 347, § 26, eff. 6/4/2003.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 222.
