# § 43-4B-4. Authority of commission

(a) The commission is the sole regulator of professional boxing in Georgia and shall have authority to protect the physical safety and welfare of professional boxers and serve the public interest by closely supervising all professional boxing in Georgia.
(b) The commission shall have the sole jurisdiction to license the promotion or holding of each professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing promoted or held within this state.
(c) The commission shall have the sole authority to license participants in any professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing held in this state.
(d) The commission has the authority to direct, manage, control, and supervise all professional matches, contests, or exhibitions of boxing. It may adopt bylaws for its own management and promulgate and enforce rules and regulations consistent with this chapter.
(e) The commission may appoint one or more inspectors as duly authorized representatives of the commission to ensure that the rules are strictly observed. Such inspectors shall be present at all professional matches, contests, or exhibitions of boxing.
(f) The commission may designate physicians as duly authorized representatives of the commission to conduct physical examinations of boxers licensed under this chapter and shall designate a roster of physicians authorized to conduct prefight physicals and serve as ringside physicians in all professional boxing matches held in this state.
(g) The commission or any agent duly designated by the commission may make investigations. The commission may hold hearings; issue subpoenas to compel the attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers, and records; and administer oaths to and examine any witnesses for the purpose of determining any question coming before it under this chapter or under the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter. During an investigation of any allegation which, if proven, would result in criminal or civil sanctions as provided in this chapter, the commission may withhold all or a portion of the gross receipts to which the person under investigation is entitled until such time as the matter has been resolved.
(h) The commission shall be authorized to engage in activities which promote amateur boxing in this state and to contract with any nonprofit organization which is exempted from the taxation of income pursuant to Code Section 48-7-25 for the provision of services related to the promotion of amateur boxing in this state. To support amateur boxing in this state, the commission may promote voluntary contributions through the application process or through any fund raising or other promotional technique deemed appropriate by the commission.
(i) Pursuant to 15 U.S.C.A. Section 6301, et seq., the commission is authorized to issue to each boxer who is a resident of this state an identification card bearing the boxer's photograph and in such form and containing such information as the commission deems necessary and appropriate. The commission is expressly authorized to ensure that the form and manner of issuance of such identification cards comply with any applicable federal law or regulation. The commission is authorized to charge an amount not to exceed $100.00 per card for the issuance or replacement of each identification card.
(j) The commission is authorized to create a boxing registry or to designate a nationally recognized boxing registry and to register each boxer who is a resident of this state or who is a resident of another state which has no boxing registry.
(k) The commission is authorized to inquire into the financial backing of any professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing and obtain answers to written or oral questions propounded to all persons associated with such professional event.
(l) The commission is authorized to receive tax payments in accordance with Code Section 43-4B-20, and to remit such tax payments to the general treasury.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 347, § 25, eff. 6/4/2003.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 222.
