# § 43-4B-53. Prohibited activities for felons or persons convicted of crime of moral turpitude

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or any other law to the contrary, no person or entity shall directly or indirectly engage in the practice of being a promoter of kickboxing, muay thai, Thai boxing, full-contact karate, mixed martial arts, shidokan, or martial arts matches, contests, exhibitions of any type, or be employed or otherwise serve as a manager, matchmaker, or organizer for any person or entity engaged in the practice of being a promoter of kickboxing, muay thai, Thai boxing, full-contact karate, mixed martial arts, or martial arts matches, contests, or exhibitions of any type, who has been convicted of, has pleaded guilty to, has entered a plea of nolo contendere to, or has been found guilty of a felony or crime of moral turpitude under the laws of this state or any offense that, had it occurred within this state, would constitute a felony or crime of moral turpitude under the laws of this state for a period of ten years from the date of such conviction or plea. For purposes of this Code section, a conviction shall include but not be limited to disposition under Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 42.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or any other law to the contrary, no person or entity shall be retained, employed, or otherwise serve as a sanctioning, governing, licensing, authorizing, or ranking body or organization or act as an employee or representative thereof for any kickboxing, muay thai, full-contact karate, mixed martial arts, shidokan, or martial arts matches, contests, or exhibitions of any type promoted, managed, or organized in violation of subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter or any other law to the contrary, no sanctioning, governing, licensing, authorizing, or ranking body or organization for any kickboxing, muay thai, Thai boxing, full-contact karate, mixed martial arts, shidokan, or martial arts matches, contests, or exhibitions of any type shall employ, designate, or otherwise assign or utilize any person as a representative or official who has pleaded guilty to, has entered a plea of nolo contendere to, or has been found guilty of a felony or crime of moral turpitude under the laws of this state or any offense that, had it occurred within this state, would constitute a felony or crime of moral turpitude under the laws of this state for a period of ten years from the date of such conviction or plea. For purposes of this Code section, a conviction shall include but not be limited to disposition under Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 42.
(d) The first violation of this Code section by any individual or entity shall constitute a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature. Any second and subsequent conviction under this Code section shall constitute a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 325,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2005.
