# § 43-4B-18-1. Bare knuckle boxing; limitations on participation; role of commission

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term "qualifying experience" means that an individual has competed in a match, contest, or exhibition of boxing, kickboxing, martial arts, or wrestling for cash as a salary, purse, or prize for such participation.
(b) The commission shall have jurisdiction over any bare knuckle boxing match which occurs or is held within this state, is filmed in this state, or is broadcast or transmitted in this state.
(c) Only an individual that has qualifying experience may participate in a bare knuckle boxing match.
(d) Contestants in a bare knuckle boxing match shall be prohibited from strikes with any part of the body other than the hands.
(e) Contestants in a bare knuckle boxing match may be allowed, at the discretion of the referee, to clinch one another while standing, provided that striking is active.
(f) The commission shall have the authority to license organizations that govern, authorize, and promote bare knuckle boxing matches, to inquire as to compliance, to require license and match fees, and to enforce noncompliance and violations.
(g) The commission shall have the duty to safeguard the public health, protect competitors, and provide for competitive matches by determining basic minimum medical and safety requirements based on the nature of the activity and the anticipated level of physical conditioning and training of competitors in bare knuckle boxing matches.
(h) In addition to the powers and duties set out in this article, the commission is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to accomplish the purposes of this Code section in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and to enforce the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 57,§ 1B, eff. 5/1/2023.
