# § 43-4B-50. Authority and duties of the commission with regard to licensure, exemption from licensure, and regulation

(a) The commission shall have the sole authority to license organizations that govern and authorize matches, contests, and exhibitions of martial arts and wrestling and to exempt organizations from licensure in accordance with this article. The commission shall have the sole authority to permit and regulate matches, contests, and exhibitions of martial arts and wrestling. The commission shall have the sole authority to license promoters of matches, contests, and exhibitions of martial arts. The commission shall have the duty to safeguard the public health, to protect competitors, and to provide for competitive matches by requiring licensed organizations to abide by rules promulgated by the commission for basic minimum medical and safety requirements based on the nature of the activity and the anticipated level of physical conditioning and training of competitors. The commission shall have the authority to inquire as to a licensed organization's plans or arrangements for compliance with such rules. The commission shall have the authority to require annual fees for licensure and a fee for each such match, contest, or exhibition or for each show and to penalize licensed organizations, licensed promoters, and the holders of match permits that violate the provisions of this article or rules of the commission promulgated in accordance with this article.
(b) If requested by a licensed organization, the commission shall have the authority to provide direct oversight services, including but not limited to on-site inspectors, to a licensed organization for a fee negotiated between the commission and the licensed organization.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 325,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2005.
