# § 43-4B-17. Age requirements

(a) No person under the age of 18 years shall participate as a contestant in any professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing.
(b) A primary duty of the commission is ensuring that any person whose health does not permit safely engaging in boxing as a contestant is not licensed as a professional boxer. The General Assembly finds that adequate protection of the health of persons who are 50 years of age or older requires additional precautions by the commission. A person who is 50 years of age or older shall be licensed as a professional boxer and permitted to participate in a professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing only if such person:
  (1) Has participated as a contestant in at least ten professional matches or contests of boxing in the immediately preceding ten years, including at least four professional matches or contests of boxing in the immediately preceding four years; and
  (2) Is declared medically and physically able to participate as a contestant in a professional match, contest, or exhibition of boxing by a physician who has conducted a more rigorous examination than examinations performed in accordance with this chapter for persons who are younger than 50 years of age.
(c) The commission shall promulgate and adopt rules and regulations for the more rigorous examination required by this Code section for persons who are 50 years of age or older.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 347, § 27, eff. 6/4/2003.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 222.
