# § 43-4B-25. Authority to resell tickets; service charges

(a) Except as otherwise provided in Code Section 43-4B-29, it shall be unlawful for any person other than a ticket broker to resell or offer for resale any ticket of admission or other evidence of the right of entry to any athletic contest, concert, theater performance, amusement, exhibition, or other entertainment event to which the general public is admitted for a price in excess of the face value of the ticket. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, a service charge not to exceed $3.00 may be charged when tickets or other evidences of the right of entry are sold by an authorized ticket agent through places of established business licensed to do business by the municipality or county, where applicable, in which such places of business are located. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, the owner, operator, lessee, or tenant of the property on which such athletic contest or entertainment event is to be held or is being held or the sponsor of such contest or event may charge or may authorize, in writing, any person to charge a service charge for the sale of such ticket, privilege, or license of admission in addition to the face value of the ticket. Such writing granting authority to another shall specify the amount of the service charge to be charged for the sale of each ticket, privilege, or license of admission.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, in the case of any athletic contest or entertainment event that is described in Code Section 43-4B-30, a sponsor of such a contest or event may contractually restrict the resale of a ticket to such contest or event by giving notice of such restriction on the back of the ticket. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article to the contrary, in the case of any athletic contest or entertainment event, an owner, operator, lessee, or tenant of the property on which such contest or event is to be held or is being held may contractually restrict the resale of the right of occupancy of any specific suite, seat, or seating area by giving notice in writing of such restriction.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 222, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
