# § 43-4B-20. Required submission of reports and tax payments by promoters

(a) A promoter holding a match, contest, or exhibition of boxing shall, within three business days after the match, file with the commission a written report which includes the number of tickets sold, the amount of gross receipts, the amount of gross proceeds, and any other facts the commission may require. Within ten days following the match, contest, or exhibition of boxing, the promoter shall remit to the commission a tax payment in the amount of 5 percent of the gross proceeds exclusive of any federal taxes.
(b) A promoter who sells, transfers, or extends to another the rights to telecast by pay per view for viewing in this state, whether the telecast originates inside or outside this state, a match, contest, or exhibition of boxing that would be subject to regulation by the commission in accordance with this chapter if the match, contest, or exhibition were held in this state, shall, within three business days after the sale, transfer, or extension of such rights in whole or in part, file with the commission a written report that includes the gross price charged for the rights to telecast by pay per view, the number of tickets sold, the amount of gross receipts, and any other facts the commission may require.
(c) Any written report required to be filed with the commission under this Code section shall be postmarked within three business days after the conclusion of the match or telecast, if the telecast is later than the match, and an additional five days shall be allowed for mailing.
(d) Each promoter subject to subsection (b) of this Code Section shall remit to the commission within ten days following a match, contest, or exhibition a tax payment in the amount of 5 percent of total gross receipts, as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (8) of Code Section 43-4B-1, exclusive of any federal taxes, except that the tax payment derived from the gross price charged for the sale or lease of pay per view telecasting and motion picture rights shall not exceed $40,000.00 for any single event.
(e)
  (1) Any promoter who willfully makes a false and fraudulent report under this Code section is guilty of perjury and, upon conviction, is subject to punishment as provided by law. Such penalty shall be in addition to any other penalties imposed by this chapter.
  (2) Any promoter who willfully fails, neglects, or refuses to make a report or to pay the taxes as prescribed or who refuses to allow the commission to examine the books, papers, and records of any promotion is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(f) The commission shall remit all tax payments to the general treasury of the state.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 325,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 347, § 28, eff. 6/4/2003.
