# § 43-44-3. Definitions

(1) "Accredited program" means a program leading to the award of a degree in speech-language pathology or audiology that is accredited by an organization recognized for that purpose by the United States Department of Education or its successor and adopted by rule or regulation of the board.
(2) "Audiogram" means a graphic or tabular summary of the measurements of hearing, showing a person's hearing threshold levels for pure tones.
(3) "Audiologist" means a person who has a degree in audiology, who is licensed to practice audiology, or both and who presents himself or herself to the public by any title or description of services incorporating the words audiologist, hearing clinician, hearing therapist, or any variation or synonym which expresses, employs, or implies these terms or functions.
(4) "Audiology assistant" means any person who assists in the providing of those audiology services authorized by the board, who meets the minimum requirements established by the State Board of Examiners for Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology, and who works under the supervision of a licensed audiologist.
(5) "Board" means the State Board of Examiners for Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology.
(6) "Dispensing hearing aids" means providing hearing aids to a consumer by sale, rental, lease, or otherwise, and includes without being limited to conducting testing and other procedures to determine suitability for use of a hearing aid, to determine hearing aid characteristics which properly compensate the hearing condition, to select suitable hearing aids, to fit hearing aids to the subject, and to counsel and instruct in the use thereof.
(7) "Hearing aid" means any wearable electronic instrument or device, including an assistive hearing device, designed for or represented or offered for the purpose of compensating for defective human hearing, including parts, attachments, ear molds, and accessories, except batteries.
(8) "License" means any license issued by the board to practice speech-language pathology or audiology.
(9) "Licensee" means any person licensed to practice speech-language pathology, audiology, or both pursuant to this article or any person holding a valid Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology Interstate Compact privilege pursuant to Article 2 of this chapter. The term "licensee" does not include the holder of a provisional license.
(10) "Person" means a natural person.
(11) "Preceptor" means any person who is licensed and has the responsibility of supervising or overseeing the training or activities of assistants, students, externs, provisional license holders, and others providing speech-language pathology or audiology services without full licenses.
(12) "Provisional license" means any temporary license issued by the board pursuant to standards and procedures determined by the board. Except for a provisional license granted pursuant to paragraph (8) of subsection (a) of Code Section 43-44-6, a provisional license shall not be granted for a total period of time to exceed one year.
(13) "Speech-language pathologist" means a person who practices speech-language pathology and who presents himself or herself to the public by any title or description of services incorporating the words speech-language pathologist, speech therapist, speech correctionist, speech clinician, language pathologist, language therapist, logopedist, communicologist, voice therapist, voice pathologist, or any similar title or description of service.
(14) "Speech-language pathology aide" means any person who aids in the providing of those speech-language pathology services authorized by the board, who meets the minimum requirements established by the State Board of Examiners for Speech-Language Pathology and Audiology, and who works directly under the supervision of a licensed speech-language pathologist.
(15) "The practice of audiology" means the application of principles, methods, and procedures of identification of hearing loss, measurement, testing, evaluation, case management, prediction, prevention, consultation, counseling, instruction, and research related to hearing, hearing disorders, and auditory and vestibular function and dysfunction; intervention as related to such principles, methods, and procedures; interpretation of the results of such principles, methods, and procedures; the evaluation, recommendations, fitting, and dispensing of hearing aids, frequency modulation technologies, and other assistive devices designed to ameliorate the effects of a hearing disorder; the programming of cochlear implants and other implantable devices; and the planning, directing, conducting, and participating in hearing conservation programs and programs of habilitation, rehabilitation, and intervention for disorders of hearing, auditory function and processing, and vestibular function, including but not limited to auditory training, speechreading, and vestibular rehabilitation, which vestibular function and rehabilitation the audiologist is qualified to perform by virtue of education, training, and experience.
(16) "The practice of speech-language pathology" means the application of principles, methods, and procedures for the measurement, testing, evaluation, prediction, consultation, counseling, instruction, intervention, research, habilitation, or rehabilitation related to the development and disorders of speech or language including but not limited to voice, resonance, fluency, cognition, and swallowing for the purpose of evaluating, preventing, ameliorating, modifying, or otherwise treating such disorders and conditions in individuals or groups of individuals.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 285,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 943,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2007.
