# § 43-44-6. General powers and duties of board

(a) The board shall:
  (1) Have the responsibility and duty of administering and enforcing this article and shall assist the division director in carrying out this article;
  (2) Have the power to establish and to revise the requirements for obtaining licensure or the renewal of licensure;
  (3) Make all rules, not inconsistent with this article, that are reasonably necessary for the conduct of its duties and proceedings;
  (4) Adopt rules and regulations relating to professional conduct commensurate with the policy of this article, including, but not limited to, regulations which establish ethical standards of practice and for other purposes. Following their adoption, such rules and regulations consistent with this article shall govern and control the professional conduct of every person who holds a license to practice under this article;
  (5) Conduct hearings and keep records and minutes as are necessary to the orderly dispatch of its functions;
  (6) Adopt a common seal;
  (7) Register and otherwise regulate qualified speech-language pathology aides and audiology assistants. The provisions of this paragraph shall not apply to any student, intern, or trainee performing speech-language pathology or audiology services while completing the supervised clinical experience;
  (8) Issue provisional licenses to speech-language pathologists during the paid clinical experience;
  (9) Issue, renew, and reinstate licenses;
  (10) Deny, suspend, revoke, or otherwise sanction licenses;
  (11) Accept results of qualifying examinations, administer examinations, or contract with qualified testing services to conduct or supervise examinations;
  (12) Establish fees;
  (13) Establish requirements for continuing professional education of persons subject to this article by appropriate regulation;
  (14) Conduct national background checks by the submission of fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation through the Georgia Crime Information Center; provided, however, that reports from such background check records shall not be shared with entities outside of this state; and
  (15) Administer the Audiology and Speech-Language Pathology Interstate Compact contained in Article 2 of this chapter.
(b) The division director shall be guided by the recommendations of the board in all matters relating to this article.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 285,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 943,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2007.
