# § 43-44-8. Requirements for licensure; continuing validity of licenses; renewal of licenses

(a) To be eligible for licensure by the board as a speech-language pathologist or as an audiologist, the applicant shall have:
  (1) Completed the academic and clinical requirements as established by rule of the board;
  (2) Completed the professional experience requirement. Every applicant for licensure as a speech-language pathologist or audiologist shall demonstrate, prior to licensure, full-time or equivalent part-time professional employment, as determined by the board. The board, by rule, shall establish standards for obtaining and verifying the required professional employment experience;
  (3) Passed an examination or examinations approved by the board. Each applicant for licensure as a speech-language pathologist or audiologist shall make application for examination as provided by the board;
  (4) Demonstrated good moral character;
  (5) Demonstrated recency of study through experience, continuing education, or both, as approved by the board; and
  (6) Satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for the issuance of a license under this Code section shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. Such applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check.
(b) To be eligible for licensure by the board as a speech-language pathologist, the applicant shall possess a master's or higher degree with a major emphasis in speech-language pathology from an accredited program, which incorporates the academic course work and the minimum hours of supervised graduate training required by the rules and regulations of the board.
(c) To be eligible for licensure by the board as an audiologist:
  (1) Effective January 1, 2007, the applicant shall have earned a doctoral degree in audiology or completed the academic requirement of a doctoral degree program with a major emphasis in audiology from an institution of higher learning that is, or at the time the applicant was enrolled and graduated was, accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the United States Department of Education or its successor organization; or
  (2) The applicant shall have earned a master's degree with a major emphasis in audiology which was conferred before January 1, 2007, from an institution of higher learning which was, at the time the applicant was enrolled and graduated, accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the United States Department of Education or its successor organization.
(d) Any speech-language pathology or audiology applicant who graduated from or is currently enrolled in a program at a university or college outside the United States or Canada shall:
  (1) Present documentation of the determination of equivalency to standards established by the United States Department of Education or its successor organization in order to qualify; and
  (2) Have completed the academic and clinical requirements established by rule of the board. The board may waive the education, practicum, and professional employment experience requirements for an applicant who received a professional education in another country if the board is satisfied that the applicant meets equivalent education and practicum requirements, passes the approved examination in the area of the license sought, and meets other requirements established by rule of the board.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, any person who has been issued a license by the State Board of Examiners for Speech Pathology and Audiology to practice as a speech pathologist or an audiologist and whose license was valid on June 30, 2006, shall not be required to comply with the provisions of subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d) of this Code section. Such person shall continue to be licensed in that person's respective field and shall have his or her license renewed if he or she complies with the other provisions of this article, including but not limited to any continuing education requirement established by the board for license renewal.
(f) The board, by rule, shall establish requirements for the renewal of a license. A license may not exceed the time allowed by rule of the board.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 285,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 943,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2007.
