# § 43-3-5. Chairperson and secretary of board; meetings; seal; records of proceedings; appointment of committees and employees

(a) The board shall elect annually a chairperson from its members.
(b) The executive director shall serve as secretary of the board.
(c) The chairperson shall determine the date, time, and location of board meetings. Board meetings shall be held at the site of the primary office of the State Accounting Office unless otherwise specified by the chairperson. The chairperson shall provide three days' notice of any meeting; provided, however, that notice may be waived by instrument in writing executed before or after the meeting; provided, further, that attendance at a meeting of the board shall constitute a waiver of notice thereof. The chairperson may delegate the responsibility of setting the location, date, and time of board meetings and providing notice of meetings to the executive director. Board meetings may be conducted by audio or video conference calls, and participation in such a conference call shall constitute attendance at the meeting so conducted. Any action that might have been taken at a meeting of the board may be taken by the unanimous written consent of all members of the board.
(d) A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business of the board.
(e) The board shall have a seal which shall be judicially noticed.
(f) The board shall preserve all applications and keep records of all of its proceedings for six years. In any proceeding in court, civil or criminal, arising out of or founded upon this chapter, copies of the records of the board's proceedings signed by a member of the board and certified as correct under the seal of the board by the executive director shall be admissible in evidence in any court of this state without further proof.
(g) The board may appoint such committees or persons, who need not be members of the board, to advise or assist it in administration, investigation, and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter as the board deems necessary and shall be authorized to compensate any such persons or members of committees who are not members of the board in such amounts as it shall determine to be reasonable.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 59,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
Renumbered from § 43-3-4 and amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 492,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2014.
