# § 43-3-20. Investigations; admissibility of records; filing of complaint; immunity; hearing

(a) The executive director shall be vested with the power and authority to make, or cause to be made through employees or agents of the board, such investigations as the board may deem necessary or proper for the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter. Any person properly conducting an investigation on behalf of the board shall have access to and may examine any writing, document, electronically stored information, or other material relating to the fitness of any licensee or applicant. The executive director or his or her appointed representative may issue subpoenas to compel access to any writing, document, electronically stored information, or other material upon a determination that reasonable grounds exist for the belief that a violation of this chapter or any other law relating to the practice of public accountancy may have occurred.
(b) The results of all investigations initiated by the board shall be reported solely to the board, and the records of such investigations shall be kept for the board by the executive director, with the board retaining the right to have access at any time to such records. No part of any such records shall be released, except to the board, for any purpose other than a hearing before the board, nor shall such records be subject to subpoena; provided, however, that the board shall be authorized to release such records to another enforcement agency or licensing authority.
(c) If a licensee is the subject of a board inquiry, all records relating to any person who receives services rendered by such licensee in his or her capacity as licensee shall be admissible at any hearing held to determine whether a violation of this chapter has occurred, regardless of any statutory privilege; provided, however, that any documentary or electronic evidence relating to a person who received such services shall be reviewed in camera and shall not be subject to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50.
(d) The board shall have the authority to exclude all persons during its deliberations on disciplinary proceedings and to discuss any disciplinary matter in private with a licensee or applicant and the legal counsel for such licensee or applicant.
(e) An individual may file a complaint against a licensee or applicant by submitting his or her complaint to the board or the executive director. When a complaint is filed, within 30 days after the conclusion of the investigation of such complaint, the executive director shall notify the complainant of the disposition of such complaint. In addition, the executive director shall upon request by the complainant advise the complainant as to the status of the complaint during the period of time that such complaint is pending.
(f) An individual, firm, association, authority, or other entity shall be immune from civil liability and criminal prosecution for reporting or investigating the acts or omissions of a licensee or applicant which violate the provisions of this chapter relating to a licensee's or applicant's fitness to practice a business or profession licensed under this chapter or for initiating or conducting proceedings against such licensee or applicant, if such report is made or action is taken in good faith, without fraud or malice. Any individual who testifies or makes a recommendation to the board in the nature of peer review, in good faith, without fraud or malice, before the board in any proceeding involving the provisions of this chapter relating to a licensee's or applicant's fitness to practice the business or profession licensed by the board shall be immune from civil liability and criminal prosecution for so testifying.
(g) Neither the issuance of a private reprimand nor the denial of a license by reciprocity nor the denial of a request for reinstatement of a revoked license nor the refusal to issue a previously denied license shall be considered to be a contested case within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act"; notice and hearing within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 50 shall not be required, but the licensee or applicant shall be allowed to appear before the board if he or she so requests. The board may resolve a pending action by the issuance of a letter of concern. Such letter shall not be considered a disciplinary action or a contested case under Chapter 13 of Title 50 and shall not be disclosed to any individual except the licensee or applicant.
(h) If a licensee or applicant after reasonable notice fails to appear at any hearing of the board for such licensee or applicant, the board may proceed to hear the evidence against such licensee or applicant and take action as if such licensee or applicant had been present. A notice of hearing, initial or recommended decision, or final decision of the board in a disciplinary proceeding shall be served personally upon the licensee or applicant or served by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, to the last known address of record with the board. If such material is served by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery and is returned marked "unclaimed" or "refused" or is otherwise undeliverable and if the licensee or applicant cannot, after diligent effort, be located, the executive director, or his or her designee, shall be deemed to be the agent for service for such licensee or applicant for purposes of this Code section, and service upon the executive director, or his or her designee, shall be deemed to be service upon the licensee or applicant.
(i) The voluntary surrender of a license or the failure to renew a license by the end of an established penalty period shall have the same effect as a revocation of such license, subject to reinstatement at the discretion of the board. The board may restore and reissue a license in the practice of public accountancy and, as a condition thereof, may impose any disciplinary sanction provided by this chapter.
(j) Regulation by the board under this chapter shall not exempt the practice of public accountancy from regulation pursuant to any other applicable law, including but not limited to Part 2 of Article 15 of Chapter 1 of Title 10, the "Fair Business Practices Act of 1975."
(k) For purposes of this Code section, the board may obtain, through subpoena by the executive director, upon reasonable grounds, any and all records relating to the mental or physical condition of a licensee or applicant, and such records shall be admissible in any hearing before the board.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 59,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 492,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2014.
