# § 43-3-9. Requirements for certificate of certified public accountant; disclosure of commissions from sale of insurance or financial products

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "good moral character" means fiscal integrity and a lack of any history of acts involving dishonesty or moral turpitude.
(b) The certificate of certified public accountant shall be granted by the board to any individual:
  (1) Who has attained the age of 18;
  (2) Who is, in the opinion of the board, of good moral character;
  (3) Who meets the following requirements of education and experience:
    (A)
      (i) Presentation to the board of such evidence as it may require that the applicant has received a baccalaureate degree or completed the requirements therefor, conferred by a college or university accredited by a national or regional accrediting organization recognized by the board, with a concentration in accounting or what the board determines to be the substantial equivalent of an accounting concentration, or with a nonaccounting concentration supplemented by what the board determines to be the substantial equivalent of an accounting concentration, including related courses in other areas of business administration.
      (ii) After January 1, 1998, any individual who has not previously sat for the uniform written examination for the certificate of certified public accountant must have completed a total of 150 semester hours or 225 quarter hours of college education, including a baccalaureate degree awarded by a college or university accredited by either a national or regional accrediting organization recognized by the board. The total educational program shall include an undergraduate accounting concentration as defined by the board or what the board determines to be the substantial equivalent of an undergraduate accounting concentration; and
    (B) One year of continuous experience in the accounting field relevant to the practice of public accountancy immediately preceding the date of application for the certificate or within a reasonable time prior to the date of such application as provided by the board by rule or regulation; provided, however, that the board may promulgate rules or regulations stating certain circumstances which shall constitute acceptable breaks in the continuity of such experience; provided, further, that the board may accept, in lieu of such year of experience in public accounting, evidence satisfactory to it of one year of continuous employment in the accounting field in industry, business, government, or college teaching; any combination of employment in such fields; or any combination of employment in such fields and the practice of public accountancy immediately preceding the date of application for the certificate or what the board determines to be the equivalent thereof; and provided, further, that any individual certificated as a certified public accountant under the laws of this state on July 1, 1977, shall be deemed to have the experience in the practice of public accountancy required by this subparagraph; and
  (4) Who shall have passed an examination approved by the board in such related subjects as the board deems appropriate.
(c) If the board determines that an applicant lacks good moral character, the board may refuse to certify an applicant when it finds by a preponderance of the evidence that there is a substantial connection between the lack of good moral character of the applicant and the potential professional responsibilities of such applicant. When an applicant is found to be unqualified for a certificate because of lack of good moral character, the board shall furnish the applicant a statement containing the findings of the board and a complete listing of the evidence upon which the determination was based, and the applicant may request a hearing on that determination.
(d) Any individual or firm who holds a license as a certified public accountant and who is engaged in the sale of insurance or financial products for which such individual or firm receives commissions shall disclose in writing to the client the fact that the individual or firm will receive commissions from the sale to the client of any such insurance or financial products; provided, however, that the individual or firm shall not be required to disclose the actual amount of such commissions.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 59,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2015.
Renumbered from § 43-3-6 and amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 492,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 775,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 851, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
