# § 43-3-6. Duties of executive director

(a) The executive director shall:
  (1) Be a full-time employee of the State Accounting Office and shall serve as the secretary of the board. He or she shall be an individual of good moral character and shall possess such qualifications as the board may require;
  (2) Take an oath to discharge faithfully the duties of the office;
  (3) Keep all records related to the board;
  (4) With the approval of the board, employ and fix the compensation of individuals as deemed necessary to assist in the duties of the board. If an employee will serve as an investigator, he or she shall have a level of experience or knowledge of the area of practice needing to be examined or investigated, including but not limited to accounting, auditing, and taxes, that is acceptable to the board;
  (5) Schedule the time and location for all examinations and hearings;
  (6) Maintain a schedule of all meetings and hearings of the board that shall be available for public review; and
  (7) Make a report to the Governor on or before the second Tuesday in January of each year covering the activities of the board for the previous calendar year, which shall be made available to any member of the General Assembly upon request.
(b) With the approval of the board, the executive director may contract with any person or agency who is not an employee of the State Accounting Office to implement any provision of this chapter and to fulfill the responsibilities of the board.
(c) The executive director and other board employees shall be allowed reimbursement for travel and other expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties in the same manner as other employees of this state and shall receive payment of the same in the manner provided for the board.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 59,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 43, eff. 3/13/2015.
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 492,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2014.
