# § 43-3-4. Membership of board; terms; removal; expense reimbursement

(a) The board shall consist of seven members, to be appointed by the Governor with the approval of the Senate. Any such appointment made when the Senate is not in session shall be effective until the appointment is acted upon by the Senate. Each member of the board shall be a resident of this state. Six members of the board shall be certified public accountants, all of whom shall be licensed in this state. One member of the board shall be appointed from the public at large and shall be an individual to whom neither this state nor any other state has ever issued a certificate, registration, license, or permit to engage in the practice of public accountancy.
(b) Each member of the State Board of Accountancy in office on June 30, 2014, shall remain in office until the expiration of his or her term and the appointment and approval of his or her successor.
(c) Any appointment or reappointment of board members shall be for a period of four years. The remaining portion of any unexpired term shall be filled by appointment by the Governor with the approval of the Senate. Upon the expiration of his or her term of office, a member shall continue to serve until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(d) No member of the board shall serve as such for more than two terms, consecutive or otherwise; and, for purposes of calculating the number of terms served, the filling of an unexpired term or terms for a total of more than 30 calendar months shall be treated as the serving of a full term.
(e) Any member of the board may be removed by the Governor for misconduct, incompetence, neglect of duty, or inability to perform the duties required of members. The membership on the board of any member whose license in this state has expired and has not been renewed, has become void, or has been revoked or suspended shall be automatically terminated simultaneously with any such expiration, voiding, revocation, or suspension.
(f) Each member of the board may receive the expense allowance as provided by subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21 and the same mileage allowance for the use of a vehicle as that received by other employees of this state or a travel allowance of actual transportation costs if traveling by public carrier. Each board member may be reimbursed for any conference or meeting registration fee incurred in the performance of his or her duties as a board member subject to the approval of the executive director. For each day's service in any other state as a board member, such member may receive actual expenses as an expense allowance. Expense vouchers submitted by board members shall be subject to approval by the executive director. A board member's travel outside of this state shall be allowed if such travel was approved by the executive director.

## History

Renumbered from § 43-3-3 and amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 492,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 332,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
