# § 43-3-17. Renewal of firm license

(a) In each renewal year, each firm licensed in this state pursuant to Code Section 43-3-16 which has issued an attest or compilation report within the 24 months preceding the date of expiration of the firm's license shall submit, with the application for renewal, evidence of satisfactory completion of a board approved peer review within the 36 months preceding the date of such firm's license expiration. Satisfactory completion shall mean that the firm has undergone the entire peer review process and that the report of the peer review indicates that the firm maintains acceptable standards of competence and integrity in the practice of public accountancy. Firms which have not issued an attest or compilation report within the 24 months preceding the date of the firm's license expiration shall submit written confirmation of such fact with the application for the firm's license renewal. The board may waive or modify the requirements of this subsection in cases of hardship or other such circumstances which the board deems appropriate. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to the practice of an enrolled agent before the federal Internal Revenue Service or the Department of Revenue if the enrolled agent is not otherwise engaged in the practice of public accountancy in this state.
(b) No firm shall be licensed in this state which shall have failed to comply with the provisions of this Code section, applicable requirements of law, and rules or regulations promulgated by the board.
(c) This Code section shall be construed to apply only to firms required to be licensed under this chapter.

## History

Renumbered from § 43-3-23 and amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 492,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2014.
