# § 43-3-3. Georgia State Board of Accountancy; powers and duties; executive director; venue

(a) The State Board of Accountancy on June 30, 2014, is continued in existence as the Georgia State Board of Accountancy, and members serving on the State Board of Accountancy on June 30, 2014, shall continue to serve out his or her term of office on the Georgia State Board of Accountancy and until his or her respective successors are appointed and qualified.
(b) The board shall have all of the duties, powers, and authority granted by or necessary for the enforcement of this chapter.
(c) On and after July 1, 2014, the board shall be an attached agency for administrative purposes only to the State Accounting Office and shall not be considered a division as such term is defined in Code Section 43-1-1. The board shall neither be under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of State nor be under the direction of the director of the Professional Licensing Boards Division of the Secretary of State. The board shall not be subject to the provisions of Chapter 1 of this title.
(d) The board shall fix the compensation of an executive director. The executive director shall serve at the pleasure of the board. The executive director shall have those duties and powers prescribed by the board as further set forth in Code Section 43-3-6.
(e) The venue of any action involving members of the board shall be the county in which is found the primary office of the State Accounting Office. The executive director shall not be considered a member of the board in determining the venue of any such action, and no court shall have jurisdiction over any such action solely by virtue of the executive director residing or maintaining a residence within its jurisdiction.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 59,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 492,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2014.
