# § 37-2-11.2. Access by the department, Department of Human Services, Department of Public Health, Department of Community Health, or regional office to records of any program receiving public funds; confidentiality

(a) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, to ensure the quality and integrity of patient and client care, any program receiving any public funds from, or subject to licensing, certification, or facility approval by, the department, the Department of Human Services, the Department of Public Health, the Department of Community Health, or a regional office shall be required to provide the department or the appropriate regional office or both, upon request, complete access to, including but not limited to authorization to examine and reproduce, any records required to be maintained in accordance with contracts, standards, or rules and regulations of the department, the Department of Human Services, the Department of Public Health, or the Department of Community Health or pursuant to the provisions of this title.
(b) Records obtained pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be considered public records and shall not be released by the department, the Department of Human Services, the Department of Public Health, the Department of Community Health, or any regional office unless otherwise specifically authorized by law.
(c) The community service board shall maintain a clinical record for each consumer receiving treatment or habilitation services from such board. The treatment of clinical records of consumers in receiving services for mental illness shall be governed by the provisions of Code Section 37-3-166. The treatment of clinical records of consumers receiving habilitation services for developmental disabilities shall be governed by the provisions of Code Section 37-4-125. The treatment of clinical records of consumers in treatment for addictive diseases shall be governed by the provisions of Code Section 37-7-166.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 5-24, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 1-7, eff. 7/1/2002.
