# § 37-2-5.1. Allocation of funds

(a) State, federal, and other funds appropriated to the department and available for the purpose of funding the planning and delivery of disability services shall be distributed in accordance with this subsection. All funds associated with services to clients residing within a given region shall be managed through the department; the term "all funds" shall include funding for hospitals, community service boards, private and public contracts, and any contracts relating to service delivery for clients within the given region. The department shall establish a funding amount for regions conditioned upon the amount of funds appropriated. The funding amount shall be determined, in part, based on consumer service needs, service and program history, population based funding needs, infrastructure mandates, program efficiency and effectiveness, geographic distances, and other factors affecting the cost and level of service needs within each region.
(b) The department shall establish guidelines to ensure that regions receive such funding based on client population, past and future service delivery needs and capabilities, and in consideration of special needs populations, such as homeless and transient populations. The department shall ensure that funds are managed based primarily on services to clients and in compliance with all federal, state, and regulatory requirements.
(c) The department, in compliance with the provisions of the General Appropriations Act and other applicable laws, is authorized to move funds to and between community and institutional programs based on need, and the department shall develop appropriate allocation and accounting mechanisms to move funds in a planned and rational manner between hospitals, community service boards, and other providers based on client needs and utilization.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 236,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 1-7, eff. 7/1/2002.
