# § 37-2-5.2. Local offices - Duties, functions, and powers

(1) To receive and administer gifts, moneys, and donations for purposes pertaining to mental health, developmental disability, and addictive disease services;
(2) To encourage the development, in cooperation with the department, of private and public providers of programs and disability services which respond to the needs of consumers and families of consumers within the region;
(3) To serve as the representative of the citizens of the area in regard to disability services;
(4) To receive and consider complaints and grievances submitted by individuals, associations, or agencies involved with the delivery or receipt of disability services and, if deemed appropriate, to seek resolution in coordination with the department, through processes which may include impartial mediation and alternative dispute resolution, of such complaints and grievances with the appropriate hospital, community service board, or other private or public provider of service;
(5) To assure the highest achievable level of public awareness and understanding of both available and needed disability services;
(6) To visit regularly disability services facilities and programs which serve the region in order to assure contracted providers are licensed and accredited by the designated agencies prescribed by the department, and in order to evaluate the effectiveness and appropriateness of the services, as such services relate to the health, safety, and welfare of service recipients, and to provide technical assistance to programs in delivering services; and
(7) To participate with other local offices and planning boards, the department, local, state, or federal government agencies, educational institutions, and public and private organizations in the coordination of planning, research, service development, and evaluation activities:
  (A) To work cooperatively with all units of county and local government, including the county boards of health, within the region; and
  (B) To establish goals and objectives, not inconsistent with those established by the department, for its region.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 236,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 37, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 418,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 1-7, eff. 7/1/2002.
