# § 37-2-2. Definitions

(1) "Community service board" means a public mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases board established pursuant to Code Section 37-2-6.
(2) "Community service board area" means an area inclusive of the counties which fall within the boundaries of a community service board as designated by the department pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 37-2-3 for the establishment of a community service board.
(3) "Community service board service area" means a community service board area and any other county or portion thereof in which the community service board provides services.
(4) "Council" means the Behavioral Health Coordinating Council established pursuant to Code Section 37-2-4.
(5) "Governing board" means the governing board of a community service board established pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 37-2-6.
(6) "Health services" means any education or service provided by the department, the Department of Public Health, or the Department of Human Services, either directly or by contract.
(7) "Hospital" means a state owned or state operated facility providing services which include, but are not limited to, inpatient care and the diagnosis, care, and treatment or habilitation of the disabled. Such hospital may also provide or manage state owned or operated programs in the community.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 538,§ 2, eff. 4/16/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 544,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 1-7, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 2-2, eff. 1/1/2003
