# § 37-2-4.1. Local mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases offices; regional mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive disease advisory councils

(a) The department may create local mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases offices. The number of these offices may be modified from time to time as deemed necessary by the department.
(b) The department shall create a separate regional mental health, developmental disabilities, and addictive diseases advisory council for each region of the department as established under Code Section 37-2-3. Each regional advisory council may provide recommendations for the coordinated and comprehensive planning for its region in conformity with minimum standards and procedures established by the department.
(c) The powers, functions, obligations, and duties of the regional mental health, mental retardation, and substance abuse boards as they existed on June 30, 2002, are transferred to the department. The department shall succeed to all rights, privileges, entitlements, contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions of the regional boards which were in effect on June 30, 2002, and none of those rights, privileges, entitlements, contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions shall be impaired or diminished by reason of such transfer. In all such instances, the department shall be substituted for such regional board and the department shall succeed to the rights and duties under such contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 236,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 1-7, eff. 7/1/2002.
