# § 37-2-32. Nominating committee to identify qualified candidates for ombudsman; committee membership; terms of service of ombudsman

(a) A nominating committee appointed by the Governor shall identify at least three qualified persons to serve as ombudsman. In making the appointment of the ombudsman, the Governor shall consider, but not be limited to, the nominations furnished by the nominating committee. The ombudsman shall have knowledge and experience concerning the safety, well-being, and rights of consumers and shall have the skills to perform the duties set forth in this article.
(b) The nominating committee shall have at least five members, who are residents of this state, appointed by the Governor and selected from the following:
  (1) A former consumer of the division;
  (2) A current consumer of the division;
  (3) A representative of the department;
  (4) A representative of an advocacy organization for consumers;
  (5) A representative of law enforcement;
  (6) A licensed psychiatrist;
  (7) A psychologist;
  (8) A registered professional nurse; and
  (9) A representative of the executive branch of the state government of Georgia.
(c) Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. The nominating committee shall elect from among the members a chairperson and a vice chairperson.
(d) The ombudsman shall serve a term of five years and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified. The ombudsman may be reappointed. No person shall serve as ombudsman while holding another public office or while being an owner or operator of a services provider or in the employ of or under contract with a services provider; nor shall such person be a spouse, parent, or child of such an owner, operator, employee, or contractor.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 418,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2008.
