# § 37-2-45. Medical review group to review the deaths of consumers

(a) The Governor shall appoint a medical review group to conduct medical reviews of all deaths of consumers in state hospitals or state operated community residential services, which shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor. The medical review group shall consist of the ombudsman and four board certified physicians, one of whom shall be a psychiatrist. Three members of the medical review group shall constitute a quorum. The ombudsman shall serve as the chairperson and shall appoint a vice chairperson.
(b) The physician members of the medical review group shall receive such compensation, if any, as may be fixed by the Governor. Such physician members shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred by them in performance of their duties such as transportation, lodging, and subsistence, at the same rate as members of the General Assembly.
(c) The medical review group:
  (1) Shall be a review organization and shall conduct reviews of deaths of consumers in state hospitals and state operated community residential services as peer reviews pursuant to Article 6 of Chapter 7 of Title 31;
  (2) Shall review, within 60 days of notice of the death, all deaths of consumers:
    (A) Occurring on site of a state hospital or state operated community residential services providing services under this title;
    (B) In the company of staff of a state hospital or state operated community residential services providing services under this title; or
    (C) Occurring within two weeks following the consumer's discharge from a state hospital or state operated community residential services;
  (3) Shall have access to all clinical records of the consumer, all investigations conducted by the department, state hospitals, or state operated community residential services regarding the death, and all reviews of the death, including peer reviews;
  (4) May interview staff of the state hospitals and state operated community residential services, and other persons involved in the events immediately preceding and involving the death;
  (5) Shall determine whether the death was the result of natural causes or may have resulted from other than natural causes;
  (6) Shall determine whether the death requires further investigation or review;
  (7) May make confidential recommendations to the ombudsman, the department, the division, the state hospitals, and state operated community residential services regarding consumer treatment and care, policies, and procedures, which may assist in the prevention of deaths; and
  (8) Shall report to the appropriate law enforcement agency any suspected criminal activity or suspected abuse and shall report any suspected violation of any professional code of conduct to the appropriate licensing board.
(d) All peer review records submitted to or produced or created by the medical review group and the findings and recommendations of the medical review group, except for the quarterly reports, shall remain confidential and shall not be considered public records under Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 418,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2008.
