# § 37-2-30. Definitions

(1) "Advance directive for health care" means a written document voluntarily executed by a patient in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 31-32-5.
(2) "Clinical record" means a written record pertaining to an individual consumer and shall include all medical records, progress notes, charts, admission and discharge data, and all other information which is recorded by a services provider or other entities responsible for a consumer's care and treatment under this chapter and which pertains to the consumer's hospitalization, treatment, or habilitation.
(3) "Consumer" means a natural person who has been or is a recipient of disability services as defined in Code Section 37-1-1 and shall include natural persons who are seeking disability services.
(4) "Durable power of attorney for health care" means a written document voluntarily executed by an individual creating a health care agency in accordance with Chapter 36 of Title 31, as such chapter existed on and before June 30, 2007.
(5) "Estate representative" means an executor, executrix, administrator, or administratrix of the estate of a deceased consumer.
(6) "Guardian" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 29-1-1.
(7) "Health care agent" means an agent under a durable power of attorney for health care, a health care agent under an advance directive for health care, or a mental health care agent under a psychiatric advance directive.
(8) "Office" means the office of disability services ombudsman created pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 37-2-31.
(9) "Ombudsman" means the disability services ombudsman appointed as provided for in Code Section 37-2-32.
(9.1) "Psychiatric advance directive" means a written document voluntarily executed by a patient in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 37-11-9.
(10) "Rights" means such rights as provided by statute, rule, or regulation for a consumer of a services provider.
(11) "Services provider" means a public or private person, corporation, or business which provides disability services operated by the division, under letter of agreement with the division, or under contract with the division.
(12) "Safety" means freedom from physical harm.
(13) "Well-being" means quality of life of a consumer, including the environment of care.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 836,§ 2-22, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-11, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 418,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2008.
