# § 37-2-36. Investigations

(a) The ombudsman on his or her initiative or in response to complaints made by or on behalf of consumers may conduct investigations in matters within his or her powers and duties as provided by this article.
(b) The ombudsman shall have the authority to enter any facility, premises, or property where disability services are provided. Upon entering such facility, premises, or property, the ombudsman shall notify the administrator or, in the absence of the administrator, the person in charge of such facility, premises, or property before speaking to any consumer. After notifying the administrator or the person in charge of such facility, premises, or property, the ombudsman may communicate privately and confidentially with consumers in such facility, premises, or property individually or in groups.
(c) The ombudsman shall have the authority to inspect the entire facility, premises, or property and have access to the administrative records, policies, and documents of the facility, premises, or property. Entry and investigation as provided by this Code section shall be conducted in a manner which will not significantly disrupt the provision of disability services to consumers.
(d) The ombudsman shall have access to the clinical records of any consumer if:
  (1) The ombudsman has written consent of the consumer, or if applicable the parent of a minor consumer, the guardian of the consumer, or the health care agent of the consumer if the agent is authorized to make such a decision and the consumer is unable to do so; or
  (2) The consumer lacks the capacity to consent to the review and has no guardian of the consumer or health care agent who is authorized to make such a decision.
(e) The ombudsman shall identify himself or herself as such to the consumer, and the consumer shall have the right to communicate or refuse to communicate with the ombudsman.
(f) The consumer, the parent of a minor consumer, the consumer's guardian, or the health care agent of the consumer if the health care agent is authorized to make such a decision and the consumer is unable to do so, shall have the right to participate in planning any course of action to be taken on the consumer's behalf by the ombudsman, and the consumer, parent of a minor consumer, guardian, or health care agent of the consumer if the agent is so authorized, shall have the right to approve or disapprove any proposed action to be taken on the consumer's behalf by the ombudsman.
(g) The ombudsman shall have the authority to obtain from any department, governmental agency, or services provider, and such department, agency, or services provider shall provide cooperation and assistance, services, data, and access to, such files and records as will enable the ombudsman properly to perform his or her duties and exercise his or her powers, provided that such information is not privileged under any law.
(h) The ombudsman shall report for investigative purposes any and all:
  (1) Suspected criminal activity to the appropriate law enforcement agency;
  (2) Suspected abuse, neglect, exploitation, or abandonment of a consumer by any person to the appropriate federal or state regulatory authority; and
  (3) Suspected violations of any professional code of conduct to the appropriate licensing board.
(i) The ombudsman shall provide information and procedural guidance to any person who requests assistance in making a report of suspected abuse, neglect, exploitation, or abandonment of a consumer by any person:
  (1) To the appropriate law enforcement agency if criminal activity is suspected; or
  (2) To the appropriate federal or state regulatory authority if abuse, neglect, exploitation, or abandonment of a consumer is suspected.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 418,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2008.
