# § 31-39-2. Definitions

(1) "Adult" means any person who is 18 years of age or older, is the parent of a child, or has married.
(2) "Attending physician" means the physician selected by or assigned to a patient to have primary responsibility for the treatment and care of the patient. Where more than one physician share such responsibility, any such physician may act as the attending physician pursuant to this chapter.
(3) "Authorized person" means any one person from the following list in the order of priority as listed below:
  (A) Any agent under a durable power of attorney for health care or health care agent under an advance directive for health care appointed pursuant to Chapter 32 of this title;
  (B) A spouse;
  (C) A guardian over the person appointed pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 29-4-1;
  (D) A son or daughter 18 years of age or older;
  (E) A parent; or
  (F) A brother or sister 18 years of age or older.
(4) "Candidate for nonresuscitation" means a patient who, based on a determination to a reasonable degree of medical certainty by an attending physician with the concurrence of another physician:
  (A) Has a medical condition which can reasonably be expected to result in the imminent death of the patient;
  (B) Is in a noncognitive state with no reasonable possibility of regaining cognitive functions; or
  (C) Is a person for whom cardiopulmonary resuscitation would be medically futile in that such resuscitation will likely be unsuccessful in restoring cardiac and respiratory function or will only restore cardiac and respiratory function for a brief period of time so that the patient will likely experience repeated need for cardiopulmonary resuscitation over a short period of time or that such resuscitation would be otherwise medically futile.
(5) "Cardiopulmonary resuscitation" means only those measures used to restore or support cardiac or respiratory function in the event of a cardiac or respiratory arrest.
(5.1) "Caregiver" means an unlicensed assistant who provides direct health related care to patients or residents, a proxy caregiver performing health maintenance activities as provided in Code Section 43-26-12, or a person performing auxiliary services in the care of patients as provided in Code Section 43-26-12.
(6) "Decision-making capacity" means the ability to understand and appreciate the nature and consequences of an order not to resuscitate, including the benefits and disadvantages of such an order, and to reach an informed decision regarding the order.
(6.1) "Emergency medical technician" means a person certified as an emergency medical technician, paramedic, or cardiac technician under Chapter 11 of this title.
(7) "Health care facility" means an institution which is licensed as a hospital or nursing home pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter 7 of this title or licensed as a hospice pursuant to Article 9 of Chapter 7 of this title, or a home health agency licensed pursuant to Article 7 of Chapter 7 of this title.
(8) "Minor" means any person who is not an adult.
(8.1) "Nurse" means a person who is a licensed practical nurse as provided in Code Section 43-26-32 or a registered professional nurse as provided in Code Section 43-26-3.
(9) "Order not to resuscitate" means an order not to attempt cardiopulmonary resuscitation in the event a patient suffers cardiac or respiratory arrest, or both.
(10) "Parent" means a parent who has custody of a minor, or person with legal authority to act on behalf of a minor, or is the parent of an adult without decision-making capacity.
(11) "Patient" means a person who is receiving care and treatment from an attending physician.
(11.1) "Physician assistant" means a person licensed as a physician assistant pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 34 of Title 43.
(12) "Reasonably available" means that a person to be contacted can be contacted with diligent efforts by an attending physician, another person acting on behalf of the attending physician, or the health care facility within a reasonable period of time as determined by the attending physician.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 244,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 92,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 48,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 7, eff. 7/1/2005
