# § 31-39-4. Persons authorized to issue order not to resuscitate

(a) It shall be lawful for the attending physician to issue an order not to resuscitate pursuant to the requirements of this chapter. Any written order issued by the attending physician using the term "do not resuscitate," "DNR," "order not to resuscitate," "do not attempt resuscitation," "DNAR," "no code," "allow natural death," "AND," "order to allow natural death," or substantially similar language in the patient's chart shall constitute a legally sufficient order and shall authorize a physician, health care professional, nurse, physician assistant, caregiver, or emergency medical technician to withhold or withdraw cardiopulmonary resuscitation. Such an order shall remain effective, whether or not the patient is receiving treatment from or is a resident of a health care facility, until the order is canceled as provided in Code Section 31-39-5 or until consent for such order is revoked as provided in Code Section 31-39-6, whichever occurs earlier. An attending physician who has issued such an order and who transfers care of the patient to another physician shall inform the receiving physician and the health care facility, if applicable, of the order.
(b) An adult person with decision-making capacity may consent orally or in writing to an order not to resuscitate and its implementation at a present or future date, regardless of that person's mental or physical condition on such future date. If the attending physician determines at any time that an order not to resuscitate issued at the request of the patient is no longer appropriate because the patient's medical condition has improved, the physician shall immediately notify the patient.
(c) The appropriate authorized person may, after being informed of the provisions of this Code section, consent orally or in writing to an order not to resuscitate for an adult candidate for nonresuscitation; provided, however, that such consent is based in good faith upon what such authorized person determines such candidate for nonresuscitation would have wanted had such candidate for nonresuscitation understood the circumstances under which such order is being considered. Where such authorized person is an agent under a durable power of attorney for health care or a health care agent under an advance directive for health care appointed pursuant to Chapter 32 of this title or where a Physician Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment form with a code status of "do not resuscitate" or its equivalent has been executed in accordance with Code Section 31-1-14 by an authorized person who is an agent under a durable power of attorney for health care or a health care agent under an advance directive for health care appointed pursuant to Chapter 32 of this title, the attending physician may issue an order not to resuscitate a candidate for nonresuscitation pursuant to the requirements of this chapter without the concurrence of another physician, notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (4) of Code Section 31-39-2.
(d) When a minor child is a candidate for nonresuscitation, an order not to resuscitate may be issued only with the oral or written consent of the minor's parent, unless an exception applies pursuant to subsection (e) of this Code section. If in the opinion of the attending physician the minor is of sufficient maturity to understand the nature and effect of an order not to resuscitate, then no such order shall be valid without the assent of such minor.
(e) If none of the persons specified in subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Code section is reasonably available or competent to make a decision regarding an order not to resuscitate, an attending physician may issue an order not to resuscitate for a patient, provided that:
  (1) Such physician determines with the concurrence of a second physician, in writing in the patient's medical record, that such patient is a candidate for nonresuscitation;
  (2) An ethics committee or similar panel, as designated by the health care facility, concurs in the opinion of the attending physician and the concurring physician that the patient is a candidate for nonresuscitation; and
  (3) The patient is receiving inpatient or outpatient treatment from or is a resident of a health care facility other than a hospice or a home health agency.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 244,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 55,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 92,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 69,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
