# § 18-4-1. Definitions

(1) "Disposable earnings" means that part of the earnings of an individual remaining after the deduction for federal income tax, state income tax, withholdings for the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA), and other mandatory deductions required by law.
(2) "Earnings" means compensation paid or payable for personal services, whether denominated as wages, salary, commission, fee, bonus, tips, overtime, or severance pay, including recurring periodic payments from pensions or retirement plans, including, but not limited to, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, Railroad Retirement Board, Keoghs, and individual retirement accounts.
(3) "Entity" means a public corporation or a corporation, limited liability company, partnership, limited partnership, professional corporation, firm, or other business organization other than a natural person.
(4) "Financial institution" means every federal or state chartered commercial or savings bank, including savings and loan associations and cooperative banks, federal or state chartered credit unions, benefit associations, insurance companies, safe-deposit companies, trust companies, any money market mutual fund, or other organization held out to the public as a place of deposit of funds or medium of savings or collective investment.
(5) "Garnishee answer" or "garnishee's answer" means the response filed by a garnishee responding to a summons of garnishment detailing the money or other property of the defendant that is in the possession of the garnishee or declaring that the garnishee holds no such money or other property of the defendant.
(6) "Public corporation" means any department, agency, branch of government, or political subdivision, as such term is defined in Code Section 50-15-1, or any public board, bureau, commission, or authority created by the General Assembly.
(7) "Statutory overnight delivery" shall have the same meaning as defined in Code Section 9-10-12.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 574,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 325,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2016.
