# § 18-4-7. Required information on summons of garnishment or attachment thereto; form usage; failure to use correct form

(a) The amount shown on the summons of garnishment shall not exceed the amount the defendant owes the plaintiff pursuant to a judgment.
(b)
  (1) A summons of garnishment, or an attachment thereto, shall state on its face with particularity all of the following information, to the extent reasonably available to the plaintiff:
    (A) The name of the defendant and, to the extent such would reasonably enable the garnishee to properly respond to the summons of garnishment, all known configurations, nicknames, aliases, former or maiden names, trade names, or variations thereof;
    (B) The service address and the current address of the defendant and, to the extent such would reasonably enable the garnishee to properly respond to the summons of garnishment and such is reasonably available to the plaintiff, the past addresses of the defendant; and
    (C) The social security number or federal tax identification number of the defendant; provided, however, that if such summons is filed with a court, the court filing shall be redacted in accordance with Code Section 9-11-7.1 or 15-10-54, as applicable. The defendant's full social security number or federal tax identification number shall be made known to the garnishee and defendant in accordance with Code Section 9-11-7.1 or 15-10-54, as applicable, to the extent such information is reasonably available to the plaintiff.
  (2) The form for a summons of garnishment on a financial institution shall not be used for a continuing garnishment or continuing garnishment for support. A summons of garnishment on a financial institution, or an attachment thereto, shall also state with particularity the defendant's account, identification, or tracking numbers known to the plaintiff used by the garnishee in the identification or administration of the defendant's funds or property; provided, however, that if such summons is filed with a court, the court filing shall be redacted in accordance with Code Section 9-11-7.1 or 15-10-54, as applicable. The defendant's account, identification, or tracking numbers shall be made known to the garnishee and defendant in accordance with Code Section 9-11-7.1 or 15-10-54, as applicable, to the extent such information is known to the plaintiff.
  (3) A misspelling of any information required by this subsection, other than the surname of a natural person defendant, shall not invalidate a summons of garnishment, so long as such information is not misleading in a search of the garnishee's records.
(c) The form for a summons of garnishment is set forth in Code Section 18-4-74, and the optional attachment thereto is set forth in Code Section 18-4-75. The form for a summons of garnishment on a financial institution is set forth in Code Section 18-4-76, and the attachment thereto is set forth in Code Section 18-4-77. The form for a summons of garnishment on a financial institution shall not be used for a continuing garnishment or continuing garnishment for support.
(d) When a plaintiff uses the incorrect form for a summons of garnishment of any type, the garnishment shall not be valid and the garnishee shall be relieved of all liability.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 459,§ 3, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 325,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2016.
