# § 18-4-86. Garnishee answer to continuing garnishment

1. From the time of service of the Summons of Continuing Garnish-ment, if this is the first Garnishee Answer to such summons, otherwise from the time of the last Garnishee Answer to the Summons of Continuing Garnishment until the time of this Garnishee Answer, the Garnishee had in the Garnishee's possession the following described property of the Defendant: __________________ __________________ __________________
2. From the time of service of the Summons of Continuing Garnish-ment, if this is the first Garnishee Answer to such summons, otherwise from the time of the last Garnishee Answer to the Summons of Continuing Garnishment until the time of this Garnishee Answer, all obligations accruing from the Garnishee to the Defendant are in the amount of $__________________.
3. $ __________________ of the amount named in paragraph 2 were wages earned at the rate of $__________________ per __________________ for the period beginning __________________, 20__________________, through the time of making this Date Garnishee Answer. The amount of wages which is subject to this garnishment is computed as follows:$ __________________ Gross earnings$ __________________ Total social security and withholding tax and other mandatory deductions required by law$ __________________ Total disposable earnings$ __________________ Amount of wages subject to garnishment.
4. $ __________________ is the amount herewith paid into court.
5. [] Check this box if the Defendant is not presently employed by or owed periodic payments by the Garnishee.
6. [] Check this box if the Defendant was employed by or owed periodic payments by the Garnishee on or after service of the Summons of Continuing Garnishment but was terminated as of __________________, 20__________________. Date
7. [] Check this box if this is the last Garnishee Answer this Garnishee is required to file to the presently pending Summons of Garnishment in the above-styled case.
8. The Garnishee further states: __________________ __________________ Garnishee, Garnishee's Attorney, or officer or employee of an entity GarnisheeCERTIFICATE OF SERVICEThis is to certify that I have this day served the Plaintiff or Plaintiff's Attorney and the Defendant or Defendant's Attorney in the foregoing matter with a copy of this pleading by depositing it in the United States mail in a properly addressed envelope with adequate postage thereon.This __________________ day of __________________, 20__________________.__________________Garnishee, Garnishee's Attorney, or officer or employee of an entity Garnishee

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 18, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 574,§ 33, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 325,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2016.
