# § 18-4-73. Affidavit of continuing garnishment for support

1. I am the (Plaintiff) (Attorney at Law for Plaintiff) (Agent for Plaintiff). [Circle one]
2. The Plaintiff obtained a judgment against the Defendant in Case Number __________________ in the __________________Court of __________________ County, __________________, andStateno agreement requires forbearance from the garnishment which is applied for currently.
3. The Affiant states that the Defendant is in arrears on the obligation for support in an amount equal to or in excess of one month's obligation as decreed in the judgment for support and provides the following information: $__________________ is the amount of arrearage which exists under the judg-ment as of the execution of this affidavit.Check one of the boxes below andcomplete the requested information:
  A. [] Periodic support is owed for one obligee, or the judgment sets forth a total amount of periodic support for multiple obligees as follows: $__________________ is the total amount of periodic support due for __________________, __________________,Name of obligee Name of obligee and __________________. Name of obligeeSuch periodic support is payable on a __________________ E.g., weekly, monthly basis.The termination date of the obliga-tion for periodic support is Date.
  B. [] Periodic support is owed for mul-tiple obligees, and the judgment sets forth a different amount of periodic support for each obligee as follows: $ __________________ is the total amount of periodic support due for __________________, payable on a Name of obligee __________________ basis, E.g., weekly, monthlyand the termination date of such obligation is __________________ Date$ __________________ is the total amount of periodic support due for __________________, payable on a Name of obligee __________________ basis, E.g., weekly, monthlyand the termination date of such obligation is __________________ Date$ __________________ is the total amount of periodic support due for __________________, payable on a Name of obligee __________________ basis, E.g., weekly, monthlyand the termination date of such obligation is __________________ Date
4. [] Check this box and attach a certified copy of the judgment for support hereto.
5. Upon the Affiant's personal knowledge or belief, the sum stated herein is unpaid.
6. The Affiant believes that the Garnishee is an employer of or under periodic obligations for payment of funds to the Defendant. This __________________ day of __________________, 20__________________.__________________Affiant__________________Print name of AffiantSworn to and subscribed before me this __________________ day of __________________, 20__________________.__________________Notary Public or Deputy Clerk of Court"

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 18, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 574,§ 26, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 325,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2016.
