# § 18-4-20. Failure to file claim or traverse in timely manner

(a) When no claim has been filed and no traverse has been filed within 20 days after the garnishee's answer is filed:
  (1) If money is paid or delivered to the court by the garnishee, the clerk of the court shall pay the money to the plaintiff or the plaintiff's attorney upon application, and the garnishee shall be automatically discharged from further liability with respect to the summons of garnishment so answered;
  (2) If property is delivered to the court by the garnishee, the sheriff, marshal, constable, or like officer of the court shall sell the property in the manner provided by law for the sale of property levied under an execution, and the garnishee shall be automatically discharged from further liability with respect to the summons of garnishment so answered. The proceeds of such sale shall be paid or delivered to the plaintiff or the plaintiff's attorney upon application; or
  (3) If money or other property admitted to be subject to the garnishment is not paid or delivered to the court, judgment shall be entered for the plaintiff and against the garnishee for such money or other property and execution shall issue on the judgment.
(b) The application described under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section may be made at any time concurrent with, or following the filing of the garnishment action, and need only be made once in any such action regardless of the number of answers filed.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 574,§ 16, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 325,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2016.
