# § 18-4-82. Notice to defendant of right against garnishment of money, including wages, and other property

1. Complete the Defendant's Claim Form as set forth below; and
2. File this completed claim form with the Clerk of Court's office located at __________________ (Name of Court), __________________(Address), __________________ (City), Georgia __________________ (ZIP Code).FILE YOUR COMPLETED CLAIM FORM AS SOON AS POSSIBLE. You may lose your right to claim an exemption if you do not file your claim form within 20 days after the Garnishee's Answer is filed or if you do not mail or deliver a copy of your completed claim form to the Plaintiff and the Garnishee at the addresses listed on this notice.The Court will schedule a hearing within ten days from when it receives your claim form. The Court will mail you the time and date of the hearing at the address that you provide on your claim form. You may go to the hearing with or without an attorney. You will need to give the Court documents or other proof that your money is exempt.The Clerk of Court cannot give you legal advice. IF YOU NEED LEGAL ASSISTANCE, YOU SHOULD SEE AN ATTORNEY. If you cannot afford a private attorney, legal services may be available.DEFENDANT'S CLAIM FORMI CLAIM EXEMPTION from garnishment. Some of my money or property held by the garnishee is exempt because it is: (check all that apply)[] 1. Social security benefits.[] 2. Supplemental security income benefits.[] 3. Unemployment benefits.[] 4. Workers' compensation.[] 5. Veterans' benefits.[] 6. State pension benefits.[] 7. Disability income benefits.[] 8. Money that belongs to a joint account holder.[] 9. Child support or alimony.[] 10. Exempt wages, retirement, or pension benefits.[] 11. Exemptions for taxes due on income or earnings not subject to employer withholding.[] 12. Other exemptions as provided by law.Explain: ____________________________________I further state: (check all that apply)[] 1. The Plaintiff does not have a judgment against me.[] 2. The amount shown due on the Plaintiff's Affidavit of Garnishment is incorrect.[] 3. The Plaintiff's Affidavit of Garnishment is untrue or legally insufficient.Send the notice of the hearing on my claim to me at:Address: __________________Phone Number: __________________Email Address: __________________The statements made in this claim form are true to the best of my knowledge and belief.____________________________________, 20__________________Defendant's signatureDate__________________Print name of Defendant____________________________________, 20__________________Defendant's signatureDate__________________Print name of DefendantCERTIFICATE OF SERVICEThis is to certify that I have this day served the Plaintiff or Plaintiff's Attorney and the Garnishee in the foregoing matter with a copy of this pleading by depositing it in the United States mail in a properly addressed envelope with adequate postage thereon.This __________________ day of __________________, 20__________________.__________________Defendant or Defendant's Attorney"__________________Defendant or Defendant's Attorney"

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 18, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 574,§ 30A, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 459,§ 7, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 325,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2016.
