# § 18-4-54. Application of money paid into court; additional garnishee answers; termination

(a) The money paid into court with the initial garnishee answer, after deduction for costs, shall be first applied to the support payment required to be paid on a periodic basis that has accrued on a daily basis, by converting the periodic amount to an annual amount and dividing by 365, from the date of the plaintiff's affidavit of continuing garnishment for support to the date of the initial garnishee answer. All sums in excess of such payment shall be applied to the original arrearage. As used in this subsection, the term "original arrearage" means the sum of arrears existing as of the date of the making of the plaintiff's affidavit of continuing garnishment for support, plus any amounts includable pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section.
(b) If the amount claimed as original arrearage as of the date of the making of the plaintiff's affidavit of continuing garnishment for support is not satisfied by the money payable into court under the initial garnishee answer, after application of the funds as set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section, the garnishee shall file further garnishee answers no later than 45 days after the previous garnishee answer date, stating the earnings accrued and the basis of their accrual and tendering such money accruing in such period. The amounts paid into court pursuant to subsequent garnishee answers, over and above the periodic payment accruing within such period, shall be applied to the original arrearage until the same is retired.
(c) If the money paid into court pursuant to any garnishee answer is less than the sums due under the support requirement accruing over the same period of time, after allowance for any costs deductible from same, the resulting difference shall be added to the amount due as original arrearage until the same is retired by subsequent payments.
(d) The garnishee shall file additional garnishee answers until the original arrearage is retired and all support payments are current.
(e) Upon the termination of employment of or periodic obligations for payment to the defendant by the garnishee, the garnishee shall be required to file a final garnishee answer stating the date of the defendant's termination. After any two preceding, timely garnishee answers filed at least 30 days apart advise that no payments are owed the defendant, the garnishee may elect to file a final garnishee answer, identified as such; provided, however, that such garnishee's answer shall be filed not later than 45 days after service of the summons of continuing garnishment or 45 days after the previous garnishee answer date, whichever is later.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 574,§ 22, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 325,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2016.
