# § 33-23-35. Reporting and disposition of premiums

(a) An agent, limited subagent, or any other representative of an insurer or of any other person in the effectuation of an insurance contract shall report to the insurer or its agent the premium for the contract and the amount shall be shown in the contract. Each willful violation of this subsection shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(b) All funds representing premiums received or return premiums due the insured by any agent or subagent shall be accounted for in the licensee's fiduciary capacity, shall not be commingled with the licensee's personal funds, and shall be promptly accounted for and paid to the insurer, insured, or agent as entitled to such funds. Nothing contained in this Code section shall be deemed to require any agent or subagent to maintain a separate bank deposit for the funds of each principal, if the funds so held for each principal are reasonably ascertainable from the books of accounts and records of the agent or subagent.
(c) Any violation of this Code section shall constitute grounds or cause for action by the Commissioner, including, but not limited to, probation, suspension, or revocation of the license. Each and every act by a licensee shall also constitute grounds for fines and penalties, which amounts shall be set by rule or regulation of the Commissioner. Any willful violation of this Code section shall constitute a misdemeanor unless such amounts involved exceed $1,000.00, whereby such violation shall constitute a felony.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 767,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended without change by 2001 Ga. Laws 293, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
