# § 33-23-8. Form and contents of license application; fees

(a) An individual applicant for any license required by this chapter shall file with the Commissioner an application upon forms prescribed by the Commissioner.
(b) If the application is for an agent's or limited subagent's license, the application shall state the kinds of insurance proposed to be transacted. If applying as a limited subagent, the applicant shall be appointed as a limited subagent by a sponsoring agent prior to the issuance of such license.
(c) As to any application for a limited subagent's license or certificate of authority, the Commissioner shall require as part of the application a certificate of the sponsoring agent proposed to be represented. The certificate shall state, relative to the applicant's character, including criminal background, identity, residence, experience, and instruction as to the kinds of insurance to be transacted, that the sponsoring agent is satisfied that the applicant is trustworthy and qualified to act as its limited subagent and to hold himself or herself out in good faith to the general public as a limited subagent and the fact that the sponsoring agent desires that the applicant be licensed as a limited subagent to represent it in this state.
(d) Each applicant for an agency license shall file with the Commissioner the information required under Code Section 33-23-3.
(e) All such applications shall be accompanied by the appropriate fees in the respective amounts as provided by law.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 767,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 33, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 293, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
