# § 33-23-201. [See Note] Definitions

(1) "Exchange" means a state, federal, or partnership exchange or marketplace operating in Georgia pursuant to Section 1311 of the federal act.
(2) "Federal act" means the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148), as amended by the federal Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-152), and regulations or guidance issued under those acts.
(3) "Navigator" means an individual, including assistors, application counselors, or other persons, authorized pursuant to the federal act to provide insurance advice and guidance to uninsured individuals and groups seeking health insurance coverage. For the purposes of this article, if an organization or business entity serves as a navigator, an individual performing navigator duties for that organization or business entity shall be considered to be acting in the capacity of a navigator.
(4) "Patient navigator" means an individual who offers assistance to patients, families, and caregivers to help overcome health care system barriers and to facilitate timely access to quality medical and psychosocial care as defined by the health care community he or she serves.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 253,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013, applicable only upon the notification by the federal Department of Health and Human Services or other responsible federal agency or official to the Governor, the Commissioner of Insurance, or other responsible agency or official of the State of Georgia that a health insurance exchange has been created or approved to operate within the State of Georgia pursuant to the provisions of the federal Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (Public Law 111-148), as amended by the federal Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 (Public Law 111-152), and any amendments thereto, or regulations or guidance issued under those acts, or upon the initiation of operation of any such exchange within the State of Georgia..
