# § 33-23-23. Limitation on application after refusal or revocation of license; effect of surrender of license under written consent order

(a) No licensee or applicant whose license or application has been refused or revoked as provided by Code Sections 33-23-21 and 33-23-22 shall be entitled to file another application for a license as an agent, agency, limited subagent, surplus lines broker, counselor, or adjuster within five years from the effective date of the refusal, revocation, or, if judicial review of such refusal or revocation is sought, within five years from the date of the final court order or decree affirming such refusal or revocation.
(b) The application when filed may be refused by the Commissioner unless the applicant shows good cause why the refusal or revocation of the license shall not be deemed a bar to the issuance of a new license.
(c) Any surrender of a license under written consent order shall have the same effect as a revocation under subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section.
(d) At the Commissioner's discretion, an applicant whose application was refused under subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section may be permitted to file an application for a license; provided, however, that such application shall be filed no less than one year from the effective date of the refusal.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 265,§ 3, eff. 5/3/2023.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 767,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 293, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
