# § 33-23-101. Licensing of administrators; filing fee; refusal, suspension, or revocation of license; notice and hearing; reissuance of revoked license; appeal; probationary licenses; additional qualifications for license; restrictions on licensees; penalties

(a) No business entity shall act as or hold itself out to be an administrator in this state, other than an adjuster licensed in this state for the kinds of business for which it is acting as an administrator, unless such business entity holds a license as an administrator issued by the Commissioner. The license shall be renewed on an annual basis and in such manner as the Commissioner may prescribe by rule or regulation. Failure to hold such license shall subject the administrator to the fines and other appropriate penalties as provided in Chapter 2 of this title.
(b) An application for an administrator's license or an application for renewal of such license shall be accompanied by a filing fee to be prescribed by rule or regulation of the Commissioner.
(c) A license may be refused or a license duly issued may be suspended or revoked or the renewal of such license refused by the Commissioner if the Commissioner finds that the applicant for or holder of the license:
  (1) Has violated any provision of this title or of any other law of this state relating to insurance as defined in this chapter or relating to another type of insurance;
  (2) Has intentionally misrepresented or concealed any material fact in the application for the license;
  (3) Has obtained or attempted to obtain the license by misrepresentation, concealment, or other fraud;
  (4) Has misappropriated, converted to his or her own use, or illegally withheld money belonging to an insurer or an insured or beneficiary;
  (5) Has committed fraudulent or dishonest practices;
  (6) Has materially misrepresented the terms and conditions of insurance policies or contracts;
  (7) Has failed to comply with or has violated any proper order, rule, or regulation issued by the Commissioner;
  (8) Is not in good faith carrying on business as an administrator;
  (9) Has failed to obtain for initial licensure or retain for annual renewal an adequate net worth as prescribed by order, rule, or regulation of the Commissioner; or
  (10) Has shown lack of trustworthiness or lack of competence to act as an administrator.
(d) If the Commissioner moves to suspend, revoke, or nonrenew a license for an administrator, the Commissioner shall provide notice of that action to the administrator and the administrator may invoke the right to an administrative hearing in accordance with Chapter 2 of this title.
(e) No licensee whose license has been revoked as prescribed under this Code section shall be entitled to file another application for a license within five years from the effective date of the revocation or, if judicial review of such revocation is sought, within five years from the date of final court order or decree affirming the revocation. The application when filed may be refused by the Commissioner unless the applicant shows good cause why the revocation of its license shall not be deemed a bar to the issuance of a new license.
(f) Appeal from any order or decision of the Commissioner made pursuant to this article shall be taken as provided in Chapter 2 of this title.
(g)
  (1) The Commissioner shall have the authority to issue a probationary license to any applicant under this article.
  (2) A probationary license may be issued for a period of not less than three months and not longer than 12 months and shall be subject to immediate revocation for cause at any time without a hearing.
  (3) The Commissioner, at his or her discretion, shall prescribe the terms of probation, may extend the probationary period, or refuse to grant a license at the end of any probationary period.
(h) The Commissioner may impose, by rule or regulation, additional reasonable qualifications necessary to obtain a license as an administrator.
(i) An administrator's license may not be sold or transferred to a nonaffiliated or otherwise unrelated party. An administrator may not contract or subcontract any of its negotiated services to any unlicensed business entity unless a special authorization is approved by the Commissioner prior to entering into a contracted or subcontracted arrangement.
(j) The Commissioner may, at his or her discretion, assess a penalty or a fine against any business entity acting as an administrator without a license for each transaction in violation of this article.
(k) A licensed administrator is not permitted to market or administer any insurance product not approved in Georgia or that is issued by a nonadmitted insurer or unauthorized multiple employer self-insured health plan.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 22, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 108,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2005.
