# § 33-23-34. Records of transactions

(a) Every agent, limited subagent, counselor, and adjuster under this chapter shall keep at the address as shown on his or her license or at the insurer's regional or home office situated in this state a record of all transactions consummated under such license. The record shall be in organized form and shall include:
  (1) In the case of an agent or limited subagent, a record of each insurance contract procured or issued together with the names of the insurers and insureds, the amount of premium paid or to be paid, and a statement of the subject of the insurance; and the names of any other licensees from whom business is accepted and of persons to whom commissions or allowances of any kind are promised or paid;
  (2) In the case of an adjuster, a record of each investigation or adjustment undertaken or consummated and a statement of any fee, commission, or other compensation received or to be received by the adjuster on account of the investigation or adjustment; and
  (3) Such other and additional information as may be customary or as may be reasonably required by the Commissioner.
(b) All records as to any particular transaction shall be kept for a term of five years beginning immediately after the completion of the transaction or the term of the contract, whichever is greater, provided that records of losses adjusted by an independent adjuster may be kept at the office of the insurer for whom the adjuster acted.
(c) In the case of agents or limited subagents, the maintaining of the records required by this Code section at the insurance agency licensed under this chapter for which agency the transaction was undertaken shall be deemed to comply with the requirements of subsection (a) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 767,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended without change by 2001 Ga. Laws 293, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
