# § 33-23-18. Issuance of license on biennial basis; filing for renewal; continuing education requirements

(a) All resident agent, limited subagent, adjuster, and counselor licenses, with the exception of temporary or probationary licenses, shall be issued on a biennial basis and shall expire on the last day of the licensee's birth month.
(b) Resident agent, limited subagent, adjuster, and counselor licenses may be renewed upon receipt by the Commissioner of evidence of such continuing education as the Commissioner may establish by rule or regulation and payment of such fees as are provided by law.
(c) Renewal of the license on forms prescribed by rule or regulation must be made prior to the last day of the licensee's birth month and biennially thereafter.
(d) Continuing education requirements imposed by the Commissioner pursuant to this Code section shall not exceed 15 classroom hours for each licensed individual who has held a license for less than 20 years during the year. For those individuals who have held a license for 20 years or more, the requirement shall be no more than ten classroom hours during the year. However, the Commissioner may provide by rule or regulation for continuing education requirements on a biennial basis.
(e) Any individual who has been licensed as an agent for ten consecutive years or more and who does not perform any of the functions specified in paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 33-23-1 other than receipt of renewal or deferred commissions shall be exempt from continuing education requirements; provided, however, that if such individual wishes to again perform any of the other functions specified in said paragraph, such individual must obtain approval from the Commissioner and comply with the requirements of this chapter, including without limitation the requirements for continuing education. The Commissioner may provide, by rule or regulation, for any other exemption to or reduction in continuing education required under this Code section.
(f) Every individual required to participate in a continuing education program pursuant to this Code section, or such individual's insurer, shall furnish the Commissioner such information as the Commissioner deems necessary to verify compliance with the continuing education requirements.
(g) The Commissioner by rule or regulation may establish the following:
  (1) Staggered deadlines for the filing of forms for renewal of licenses and the corresponding required fees; and
  (2) Penalties and procedures for licensees who fail to comply with subsection (c) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 419,§ 2, eff. 3/22/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 220,§ 3, eff. 5/12/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 767,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 33, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 293, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
