# § 33-23-102. Bond and surety of applicant; liability insurance; remained licenses

(a) Every applicant for an administrator's license shall file with the application and shall thereafter maintain in force a bond in favor of the Commissioner executed by a corporate surety insurer authorized to transact insurance in this state. The terms and type of the bond, including, but not limited to, total aggregate liability on the bond, shall be established by the rule or regulation of the Commissioner.
(b) The bond shall remain in force until the surety is released from liability by the Commissioner or until the bond is canceled by the surety. Without prejudice to any liability accrued prior to cancellation, the surety may cancel the bond upon 30 days' advance notice, in writing, filed with the Commissioner.
(c) Every applicant for an administrator's license shall obtain and shall thereafter maintain in force errors and omissions coverage or other appropriate liability insurance, written by an insurer authorized to transact insurance in this state, in an amount of at least $100,000.00.
(d) The coverage required in subsection (c) of this Code section shall remain in force for a term of at least one year and shall contain language that includes that the insurer may cancel the insurance upon 60 days' advance notice filed with the Commissioner. Other terms and conditions relating to the errors and omissions policy may be imposed on the applicant as the Commissioner deems appropriate by rule or regulation.
(e) In the event a licensed administrator fails to renew, surrenders, or otherwise terminates its license, it must retain both the bond and the errors and omissions coverage for a period of not less than one year after the licensee has failed to renew, surrendered, or otherwise terminated its license.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 33, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 108,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2005.
