# § 33-23-26. Agent's certificate of authority

(a) Each insurer authorized to transact insurance in this state shall obtain an agent's certificate of authority for each agent representing such insurer in the selling, soliciting, or negotiating of contracts of insurance in this state. For the purposes of this subsection, the insurer will be deemed to have obtained a certificate of authority for its designated agent immediately upon submission of the appointment request to the Commissioner; provided, however, that the initial certificate of authority for an applicant for licensure shall not become effective until the date such applicant is finally granted a license by the Commissioner.
(b) All agents' certificates of authority shall be renewed by the insurer in such form and manner as the Commissioner may prescribe by rule or regulation.
(c) The fee for each agent's certificate of authority or renewal thereof shall be as provided in Code Section 33-8-1.
(d) An insurer or authorized representative of the insurer that terminates the appointment, employment, contract, or other insurance business relationship with an agent shall notify the Commissioner within 30 days following the effective date of the termination, using a format prescribed by the Commissioner, if the reason for the termination is one of the reasons set forth in Code Section 33-23-21 or the insurer has knowledge that the agent was found to have engaged in any of the activities in Code Section 33-23-21 by a court, governmental body, or self-regulatory organization authorized by law. Upon the written request of the Commissioner, the insurer shall provide additional information, documents, records, or other data pertaining to the termination or activity of the agent.
(e) If an agent's certificate of authority is terminated, the insurer promptly shall give notice of said termination and the effective date of the termination to the Commissioner and to the agent where reasonably possible. The Commissioner may also require the insurer to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Commissioner that the insurer has made a reasonable effort to give notice to the agent.
(f) An insurer or authorized representative of the insurer that terminates the appointment, employment, or contract with an agent for any reason not set forth in Code Section 33-23-21 shall notify the Commissioner within 30 days following the effective date of the termination, using a format prescribed by the Commissioner. Upon written request of the Commissioner, the insurer shall provide additional information, documents, records, and other data pertaining to such termination.
(g) The insurer or the authorized representative of the insurer shall promptly notify the Commissioner in a format acceptable to the Commissioner if, upon further review or investigation, the insurer discovers additional information that would have been reportable to the Commissioner in accordance with subsection (d) of this Code section had the insurer known of its existence.
(h) No certificate of authority shall be required for an agent who places surplus lines insurance with or through a surplus lines broker only with respect to such surplus lines insurance.
(i) As to any application for an agent's certificate of authority, the Commissioner shall require as part of the application a certificate of the insurer proposed to be represented. The certificate shall state, relative to the applicant's character, including criminal background, identity, residence, experience, and instruction as to the kinds of insurance to be transacted, that the insurer or sponsoring agent is satisfied that such applicant is trustworthy and qualified to act as its agent in this state.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 767,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 33, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 293, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
