# § 33-23-5.1. Conviction data

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "conviction data" means a record of a finding or verdict of guilty or plea of guilty or nolo contendere with regard to any crime regardless of whether an appeal of the conviction has been sought.
(b) With respect to the requirements of paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 33-23-5, the Commissioner shall be authorized to obtain conviction data with respect to an applicant as authorized in this Code section. The Commissioner shall submit to the Georgia Crime Information Center two complete sets of fingerprints of the applicant for appointment or employment, the required records search fees, and such other information as may be required. Upon receipt of such material, the Georgia Crime Information Center shall promptly forward one set of fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a search of bureau records and the preparation of an appropriate report concerning such records search and shall retain the other set and promptly conduct a search of its own records and all records to which the center has access. The Georgia Crime Information Center shall notify the Commissioner in writing of any derogatory finding, including, but not limited to, any conviction data regarding the fingerprint records check or if there is no such finding. All conviction data received by the Commissioner shall not be a public record, shall be privileged, and shall not be disclosed to any other person or agency except as provided in this Code section and except to any person or agency that otherwise has a legal right to inspect the employment file. All such records shall be maintained by the Commissioner pursuant to the laws regarding such records and the rules and regulations of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Georgia Crime Information Center, as applicable.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 107,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 767,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2008.
