# § 33-23-11. Issuance and contents of license; display certificate of licensure

(a) The Commissioner shall issue licenses applied for to persons qualified for the licenses in accordance with this article.
(b) The license shall state the name and address of the licensee, the date of issue, the general conditions relative to expiration or termination, the kind or kinds of insurance covered if not an insurance agency license, and the other conditions of licensing.
(c) Upon the request of a licensee under this chapter, the Commissioner shall provide a certificate of licensure which shall be suitable for display at the business premises of the licensee. The Commissioner shall provide by rule or regulation the application procedures for the certificate and the form and content of the certificate.
(d) The Commissioner shall have the authority to enter into agreements with persons for the purposes of providing licensing testing, administrative, record keeping, printing, mounting, and other services related to the administration of the Commissioner's duties under this article and to set appropriate charges by rule or regulation to cover the costs of such services which shall be in addition to the fees otherwise provided for in this title and may be paid directly to the providers of such services. The Commissioner may require applicants for licenses to pay such charges for licensing testing and for the cost of the printing and mounting of a certificate of licensure which is suitable for display directly to the provider of such services. The Commissioner may require insurers to pay such charges for licensing testing, administrative, record keeping, and other services provided for in this subsection directly to the provider of such services in an amount corresponding to the number of their authorized agents.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 406,§ 3, eff. 6/30/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended without change by 2001 Ga. Laws 293, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
