# § 33-23-29.1. Licensing of nonresident counselors

(a) An individual residing in another state may be licensed by the Commissioner as a nonresident counselor under the following circumstances and in the following manner:
  (1) Upon written application and payment of the required license fee and without requiring a written examination, the Commissioner shall issue a license to an individual to act as a nonresident counselor if the individual is licensed in his or her home state as a counselor;
  (2) Applicants whose home state does not require a license to transact business as a counselor may be licensed in this state provided that the applicant takes the examination issued by the Commissioner where required pursuant to this chapter and the applicant submits written documentation from the applicant's resident home state demonstrating the lack of a licensing requirement and such state's reciprocity with residents of this state; and
  (3) The required fee for the license shall be the fee provided by law or the sum which is charged as a license fee for nonresident counselors by the state of the applicant's residence, whichever is greater.
(b) The Commissioner shall issue a license to an individual to act as a nonresident counselor if, by the laws of the state of the applicant's residence, residents of this state may be licensed as nonresident counselors in the same manner.
(c) The Commissioner is authorized to enter into reciprocal agreements with the appropriate official of any other jurisdiction for the purpose of implementing this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 33, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 293, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
