# § 33-23-10. Examination of applicants

(a) Each individual applicant for a license as agent, limited subagent, counselor, adjuster, or surplus line broker shall submit to a personal examination in writing as to his or her competence to act in such capacity. The examination shall be prepared and given by the Commissioner or a designee of the Commissioner and shall be given and graded in a fair and impartial manner and without unfair discrimination as between individuals examined. Any required examination may be supplemented by an oral examination at the discretion of the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall provide by rule or regulation for a reasonable waiting period before giving a reexamination to an applicant who failed to pass a previous similar examination.
(b) The Commissioner shall by rule or regulation establish criteria and procedures for:
  (1) The scope of any examination; and
  (2) Exemptions, if any, to examinations, provided that the Commissioner shall not, under any circumstances, exempt himself or herself from any written examination requirements set forth in this Code section.
(c) An applicant for a license to act as an agent, limited subagent, surplus line broker, counselor, or adjuster who held a valid license to act as such which lapsed while the applicant was a member of any branch of the armed forces of the United States shall be granted a new license if application is made within a period of five years from the date of the expiration of the old license and proof satisfactory to the Commissioner is furnished that:
  (1) The individual was a member of the armed forces of the United States at the time the previous license lapsed; and
  (2) The individual's service in the armed forces of the United States was not terminated more than one year prior to the date of application for a new license.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 112,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 767,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 293, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
