# § 43-35-11. License requirement; exceptions; training and practice of podiatric residents; limited temporary licenses; delegation

(a) No person shall practice podiatric medicine unless he or she holds a license and otherwise complies with the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations adopted by the board; provided, however, that this chapter shall not apply to any person licensed to practice medicine, as defined in Chapter 34 of this title; nor shall it apply to the recommending, fitting, or sale of corrective shoes or orthomechanical supports or similar appliances by retail dealers or manufacturers; provided, however, that such dealers or manufacturers shall not otherwise be entitled to practice podiatric medicine as defined in this chapter unless duly licensed to do so.
(b)
  (1) Nothing in this chapter or any other law of this state shall prohibit the training and practice, for a period of one year or for such additional periods as the board may determine, by persons appointed as podiatric residents in programs utilizing training protocols approved by the board.
  (2) Residents in podiatric medicine and surgery may perform such duties, tasks, or functions as considered appropriate for their educational advancement under the supervision of the appropriate health care practitioner.
  (3) While serving in an approved postgraduate training program, residents in podiatric medicine and surgery shall not be subject to the continuing education requirements as set forth in Code Section 43-35-15.
(c)
  (1) Licensed podiatrists of other states and foreign countries may be permitted to enter this state for consultation with any licensed podiatric physician of this state. Such podiatrist from another state or foreign country shall not be permitted to establish offices in this state for the practice of podiatric medicine, either temporary or permanent, unless he or she obtains a license as elsewhere set forth in this chapter.
  (2) A limited temporary license may, upon the approval of the board, be issued to a podiatrist from another state or country for the purpose of advancing medical education and enhancing the individual's training provided such podiatrist is fully licensed and a member in good standing in that state or country, and provided such podiatrist is under the supervision of a licensed podiatric physician of this state.
  (3) A podiatrist from another state or foreign country issued a limited temporary license shall not be subject to the continuing education requirements as set forth in Code Section 43-35-15.
(d) Nothing in this chapter or other laws of this state shall prohibit the delegation by a podiatric physician to a podiatric assistant or other qualified person of any acts, duties, or functions which are otherwise permitted by law or established by custom, nor shall the state prohibit the performance of such acts, duties, or functions by such person.
