# § 43-35-3. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the State Board of Podiatry Examiners.
(2) "License" means a valid and current certificate of registration issued by the division director on behalf of the board which shall give the person to whom it is issued authority to engage in the practice prescribed thereon.
(3) "Licensee" means one who holds a license under this chapter.
(4) "Person" means a human person only.
(5) "Podiatric medicine," which includes chiropody, podiatry, and podiatric medicine and surgery, means that portion of the practice of medicine identified by the acts described in any one or more of the following:
  (A) Charging a fee or other compensation, either directly or indirectly, for any history or physical examination of a patient in a person's office or in a hospital, clinic, or other similar facility prior to, incident to, and necessary for the diagnosis and treatment, by primary medical care, surgical or other means, of diseases, ailments, injuries, cosmetic conditions, or abnormal conditions of the human foot and leg. As used in this subparagraph, the term "cosmetic" means a surgical or medical procedure intended to enhance the physical appearance or function of the foot, ankle, or leg, including, but not limited to, skin problems such as blemishes, spider veins, and scar revisions;
  (B) Holding oneself out to the public, either directly or indirectly, as being engaged in the practice of podiatric medicine;
  (C) Displaying or using a title or abbreviation such as "Doctor of Podiatric Medicine," "D.P.M.," "Foot Doctor," "Foot Specialist," "Foot Surgeon," "Foot and Ankle Surgeon," or other letters, designations, or symbols or signs of any type which expressly or implicitly indicate to the general public that the user renders treatment to the foot, ankle, and leg under the provisions of this chapter;
  (D) Performing surgery on the foot or leg of a patient, except that when such surgery is performed under general anesthesia it shall be permissible only when said surgery is performed at a facility permitted and regulated as a hospital or ambulatory surgical treatment center under Article 1 of Chapter 7 of Title 31 and when said general anesthesia is administered under the direction of a duly licensed physician;
  (E) Performing amputations of the toe; or
  (F) Performing amputations distal to and including the tarsometatarsal joint but only when performed in a facility permitted and regulated as a hospital or ambulatory surgical treatment center under Article 1 of Chapter 7 of Title 31.
(6) "Podiatric resident" means a person who is engaged in a postgraduate program of study or practice within this state approved by the board.
(7) "Podiatrist" means a physician and surgeon of the human foot and leg who is subject to this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 474,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 252,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
