# § 10-14-5. Registration of preneed sales agents; retention of employee applications by registered cemeteries

(a) All individuals who offer preneed contracts to the public, or who execute preneed contracts on behalf of any entity required to be registered as a preneed dealer, and all individuals who offer, sell, or sign contracts for the preneed sale of burial rights shall be registered with the Secretary of State as preneed sales agents, pursuant to this Code section, unless such individuals are exempted under this chapter or individually own a controlling interest in a preneed dealer registered under this chapter. For purposes of this chapter, any person licensed by or registered with the Board of Funeral Service as a funeral services director in full and continuous charge or an owner of a cemetery licensed by the State Board of Cemeterians as a cemeterian shall be deemed a registered preneed dealer, and regulated pursuant to the rules governing same, by virtue thereof.
(b) All preneed sales agents must be employed by a registered preneed dealer.
(c) A preneed dealer shall be liable for the activities of all preneed sales agents who are employed by the preneed dealer or who perform any type of preneed related activity on behalf of the preneed dealer. If a preneed sales agent violates any provision of this chapter, such preneed sales agent and each preneed dealer who employs such preneed sales agent shall be subject to the penalties and remedies set out in Code Sections 10-14-11, 10-14-19, 10-14-20, and 10-14-21.
(d) A preneed sales agent may be authorized to sell, offer, and execute preneed contracts on behalf of all entities owned or operated by the agent's sponsoring preneed dealer.
(e) If the application for his or her registration is sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, an individual may begin functioning as a preneed sales agent as soon as a completed application for registration, as set forth in subsection (g) of this Code section, is submitted to the Secretary of State, provided that, if any such sales agent fails to meet the qualifications set forth in this chapter, the preneed dealer shall immediately upon notification by the Secretary of State cause such agent to cease any sales activity on its behalf.
(f) The qualifications for a preneed sales agent are as follows:
  (1) The applicant must be at least 18 years of age;
  (2) The applicant must not be subject to any order of the Secretary of State that restricts his or her ability to be registered as a preneed sales agent; and
  (3) The applicant must not have been adjudicated, civilly or criminally, to have committed fraud or to have violated any law of any state involving fair trade or business practices, have been convicted of a misdemeanor of which fraud is an essential element or which involves any aspect of the funeral or cemetery business, or have been convicted of a felony.
(g) An application for registration as a preneed sales agent shall be submitted to the Secretary of State with an application fee of $100.00 by the preneed dealer on a form that has been designated by the Secretary of State and shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
  (1) The name, address, social security number, and date of birth of the applicant and such other information as the Secretary of State may reasonably require of the applicant;
  (2) The name, address, and license number of the sponsoring preneed dealer;
  (3) A representation, signed by the applicant, that the applicant meets the requirements set forth in subsection (f) of this Code section;
  (4) A representation, signed by the preneed dealer, that the applicant is authorized to offer, sell, and sign preneed contracts on behalf of the preneed dealer and that the preneed dealer has informed the applicant of the requirements and prohibitions of this chapter relating to preneed sales, the provisions of the preneed dealer's preneed contract, and the nature of the merchandise, services, or burial rights sold by the preneed dealer;
  (5) A statement indicating whether the applicant has any type of working relationship with any other preneed dealer or insurance company; and
  (6) A signed agreement by the applicant consenting to an investigation of his or her background with regard to the matters set forth in this Code section, including, without limitation, his or her criminal history.
(h) An individual may be registered as a preneed sales agent on behalf of more than one preneed dealer, provided that the individual has received the written consent of all such preneed dealers.
(i) A preneed dealer who has registered a preneed sales agent shall notify the Secretary of State within three business days of a change in such individual's status as a preneed sales agent with such preneed dealer or upon the occurrence of any other event which would disqualify the individual as a preneed sales agent.
(j) Upon receipt and review of an application that complies with all of the requirements of this Code section, the Secretary of State shall register the applicant. The Secretary of State shall by rule provide for annual renewal of registration and a renewal fee of $50.00.
(k) Each cemetery registered under this chapter shall maintain in its files for a period of five years a properly completed and executed application for employment in a form prescribed by the Secretary of State for each employee, officer, independent contractor, or other agent directly or indirectly involved in cemetery or preneed sales or any person occupying a similar status or performing similar functions. If a request is made, said forms shall be made available for inspection by authorized representatives of the Secretary of State.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 10, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 637,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2012.
