# § 10-14-3-1. Authority of boards

As provided in this Code section, the boards may have all administrative powers and other powers necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter, including the authority to promulgate rules and regulations, and the Secretary of State may delegate to the boards all such duties otherwise entrusted to the Secretary of State; provided, however, that the Secretary of State shall have sole authority over matters relating to the regulation of funds, trust funds, and escrow accounts and accounting and investigations concerning such matters but may delegate authority to the appropriate board for the review of such investigations and the determination as to disciplinary matters, necessary sanctions, and the enforcement of such decisions and sanctions. The State Board of Funeral Service shall have authority to promulgate rules and regulations and may be delegated the authority to make disciplinary and sanctioning decisions relating to funeral services or funeral merchandise. The State Board of Cemeterians shall have authority to promulgate rules and regulations and may be delegated the authority to make disciplinary and sanctioning decisions relating to burial services or burial merchandise. The Secretary of State may delegate to each board according to such duties and responsibilities of the boards.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 189,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2021.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 637,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2012.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 944,§ 2A, eff. 7/1/2006.
