# § 10-14-3. Definitions

(1) "Affiliate" means a person who directly or indirectly owns or controls, is owned or controlled by, or is under common ownership or control with another person. Solely for purposes of this definition, the terms "owns," "is owned," and "ownership" mean ownership of an equity interest, or the equivalent thereof, of 10 percent or more, and the term "person" means an individual, partnership, committee, association, corporation, or any other organization or group of persons.
(2) "Boards" mean the State Board of Cemeterians as described and authorized in Chapter 8B of Title 43 and the State Board of Funeral Service as described and authorized in Chapter 18 of Title 43.
(3) "Burial merchandise," "funeral merchandise," or "merchandise" means any personal property offered or sold by any person for use in connection with the final disposition, memorialization, interment, entombment, or inurnment of human remains.
(4) "Burial right" means the right to use a grave space, mausoleum, or columbarium for the interment, entombment, or inurnment of human remains.
(5) "Burial service" means any service other than a funeral service offered or provided by any person in connection with the final disposition, memorialization, interment, entombment, or inurnment of human remains.
(6) "Care and maintenance" means the perpetual process of keeping a cemetery and its lots, graves, grounds, landscaping, roads, paths, parking lots, fences, mausoleums, columbaria, vaults, crypts, utilities, and other improvements, structures, and embellishments in a well cared for and dignified condition, so that the cemetery does not become a nuisance or place of reproach and desolation in the community. As specified in the rules of the Secretary of State, care and maintenance may include, but is not limited to, any or all of the following activities: mowing the grass at reasonable intervals; raking and cleaning the grave spaces and adjacent areas; pruning of shrubs and trees; suppression of weeds and exotic flora; and maintenance, upkeep, and repair of drains, water lines, roads, buildings, and other improvements. Care and maintenance may include, but is not limited to, reasonable overhead expenses necessary for such purposes, including maintenance of machinery, tools, and equipment used for such purposes. Care and maintenance may also include repair or restoration of improvements necessary or desirable as a result of wear, deterioration, accident, damage, or destruction. Care and maintenance does not include expenses for the construction and development of new grave spaces or interment structures to be sold to the public.
(7) "Casket" means a container which is designed for the encasement and viewing of a dead human body.
(8) "Cemetery" means a place dedicated to and used, or intended to be used, for permanent interment of human remains. A cemetery may contain land or earth interments; a mausoleum, a vault, or crypt interments; a columbarium or other structure or place used or intended to be used for the inurnment of cremated human remains; or any combination of one or more of such structures or places. Such term shall not include governmentally owned cemeteries, fraternal cemeteries, cemeteries owned and operated by churches, synagogues, or communities or family burial plots.
(9) "Cemetery company" means any entity that owns or controls cemetery lands or property.
(10) "Columbarium" means a structure or building which is substantially exposed above the ground and which is intended to be used for the inurnment of cremated human remains.
(11) "Common business enterprise" means a group of two or more business entities that share common ownership in excess of 50 percent.
(12) "Cremation" includes any mechanical, chemical, thermal, or other professionally accepted process whereby a deceased human being is reduced to ashes. Cremation also includes any other mechanical, chemical, thermal, or other professionally accepted process whereby human remains are pulverized, burned, recremated, or otherwise further reduced in size or quantity.
(13) "Crypt" means a chamber of sufficient size to inter the remains of a deceased human being.
(14) "Entombment" means the disposition of a dead human body in a mausoleum, including without limitation a crypt, private mausoleum, or any other permanent aboveground structure not used for inurnment, but shall not include the opening and closing of a grave space, crypt, or niche or the installation of a vault.
(15) "Final disposition" means the final disposal of a deceased human being whether by interment, entombment, inurnment, burial at sea, cremation, or any other means and includes, but is not limited to, any other disposition of remains for which a segregated charge is imposed.
(16) "Funeral director" means any person licensed in this state to practice funeral directing pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 18 of Title 43.
(16.1) "Funeral director in full and continuous charge" means a funeral director who is approved by the State Board of Funeral Service to assume full responsibility for the operations of a particular funeral establishment and who shall ensure that said establishment complies with this chapter and with all rules promulgated pursuant thereto as provided in Chapter 18 of Title 43.
(17) "Funeral service" means any service relating to the transportation, embalming, cremation, and interment of a deceased human being, as further described in Code Section 43-18-1.
(18) "Grave space" or "lot" means a space of ground in a cemetery intended to be used for the interment in the ground of human remains.
(19) "Human remains" means the bodies of deceased human beings and includes the bodies in any stage of decomposition and the cremated remains.
(20) "Interment" means the burial of human remains but shall not include the opening and closing of a grave space, crypt, or niche or the installation of a vault.
(21) "Inurnment" means the disposition of the cremated remains of a deceased human being in any fashion, including without limitation in a columbarium niche, cremorial, cremation bench, cremation rock, urn, or other container but shall not include the opening and closing of a grave space, crypt, or niche or the installation of a vault.
(22) "Mausoleum" means a structure or building which is substantially exposed above the ground and which is used, or intended to be used, for the entombment of human remains.
(23) "Mausoleum section" means any construction unit of a mausoleum which is acceptable to the Secretary of State and which a cemetery uses to initiate its mausoleum program or to add to its existing mausoleum structures.
(24) "Monument" means any product used for identifying or permanently decorating a grave site, including, without limitation, monuments, markers, benches, and vases and any base or foundation on which they rest or are mounted.
(25) "Niche" means a space used, or intended to be used, for the interment of the cremated remains of one or more deceased human beings.
(26) "Nonperpetual care" means any cemetery which does not offer perpetual care as defined in this Code section.
(27) "Outer burial container" or "vault" means an enclosure into which a casket is placed and includes, but is not limited to, containers made of concrete, steel, fiberglass, copper or other metals, polypropylene, sectional concrete enclosures, and crypts.
(28) "Perpetual care" means the care and maintenance and the reasonable administration of the cemetery grounds and buildings at the present time and in the future.
(29) "Person" or "entity" means an individual, a corporation, a limited liability company, a general or limited partnership, an association, a joint-stock company, a trust, or any type of incorporated or unincorporated organization.
(30) "Preneed contract" means any arrangement or method, of which the provider of burial or funeral merchandise or services has actual knowledge, whereby any person agrees to furnish burial or funeral merchandise or services in the future.
(31) "Preneed dealer" means every person, other than a salesperson registered under this chapter, who engages, either for all or part of his or her time, directly or indirectly, as agent, broker, or principal in the retail business of offering, selling, or otherwise dealing in funeral services or burial services or funeral or burial merchandise which is not attached to realty or delivered to the purchaser at the time of sale.
(32) "Preneed interment service" or "preneed service" means any service which is not performed at the time of sale and which is offered or provided by any person in connection with the interment of human remains, except those services offered regarding mausoleums and the normal and customary installation charges on burial or funeral merchandise.
(32.1) "Principal" means a sum set aside or escrowed exclusive of income or interest or other return thereon.
(33) "Sale" or "sell" means and shall include every contract of sale or disposition of burial rights, grave spaces, burial services, funeral services, or burial or funeral merchandise for value. The term "offer to sell," "offer for sale," or "offer" shall include any attempt or offer to dispose of, or solicitation of an offer to buy, grave spaces, burial rights, burial or funeral services, or burial or funeral merchandise for value. This definition shall not include wholesalers of burial or funeral merchandise.
(34) "Salesperson" or "sales agent" means an individual employed or appointed or authorized by a cemetery, cemetery company, or preneed dealer to sell grave spaces, burial rights, burial or funeral merchandise, burial or funeral services, or any other right or thing of value in connection with the final disposition of human remains. The owner of a cemetery, the executive officers, and general partners of a cemetery company shall not be deemed to be salespersons within the meaning of this definition unless they are paid a commission for the sale of said property, lots, rights, burial or funeral merchandise, or burial or funeral services.
(35) "Secretary of State" means the Secretary of State of the State of Georgia.
(36) "Solicitation" means any communication in the context of an offer or sale of grave spaces, burial or funeral merchandise, or burial or funeral services which directly or implicitly requests a response from the recipient.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 10, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 637,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 637,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 471,§ 10, eff. 5/12/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 227,§ 1, eff. 5/24/2007.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 10, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 944,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 944,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
