# § 27-4-254. Duty of commission to develop aquaculture development plan; contents of plan; meetings of commission; staff support

(a) The commission shall make a thorough study of aquaculture and the potential for development and enhancement of aquaculture in the state. It shall be the duty of the commission to develop, distribute, and, from time to time, amend an aquaculture development plan for the State of Georgia for the purpose of facilitating the establishment and growth of economically viable aquaculture enterprises in Georgia. Such plan shall include:
  (1) An evaluation of Georgia's natural resources as they relate to aquaculture;
  (2) An evaluation of species with potential for culture in Georgia;
  (3) An identification of constraints to development of aquaculture in Georgia and recommendations on methods to alleviate these constraints;
  (4) An identification of the roles of the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Natural Resources in supporting the aquaculture industry, including an evaluation of existing physical and personnel resources and recommendations for allocation of additional resources where needed;
  (5) Recommendations for implementation of the plan; and
  (6) An identification of the role of other state and federal agencies in the development of the aquaculture industry.
(b) The commission is authorized to conduct meetings at such places and at such times as it considers expedient and to do all other things consistent with this article which are necessary or convenient to enable it to exercise its powers, perform its duties, and accomplish the objectives and purposes of this article.
(c) Staff support for the commission shall be provided by the Department of Natural Resources with assistance from the Department of Agriculture and the Department of Economic Development.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 14, eff. 7/1/2004.
