# § 27-4-253. Aquaculture Development Commission created; membership; bylaws; quorum; reimbursement for expenses; meeting at call of chairman

(a) There is created the Aquaculture Development Commission. The commission shall be composed of 14 members as follows:
  (1) The president of the Georgia Aquaculture Association or his representative, who shall serve as chairman of the commission;
  (2) The president of the Georgia Farm Bureau Federation or his representative;
  (3) The dean of the College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences of the University of Georgia or his representative;
  (4) The chairman of the Committee on Agriculture and Consumer Affairs of the House of Representatives or his representative;
  (5) The chairman of the Senate Agriculture and Consumer Affairs Committee or his representative;
  (6) The Commissioner of Agriculture or his representative;
  (7) The commissioner of natural resources or his representative;
  (8) The commissioner of economic development or his or her representative; and
  (9) Six members to be appointed by the president of the Georgia Aquaculture Association as follows:
    (A) Four members shall be representatives of the aquaculture industry;
    (B) One member shall be a representative of the commercial fish farming supply and equipment industry; and
    (C) One member shall be a representative of a private industry which is doing research in the promotion of fish farming. Each of such six members shall be appointed for a term of two years and until a successor is appointed and assumes membership on the commission. The terms of the first six such members shall begin on July 1, 1989.
(b) The members of the commission shall enter upon their duties without further act or formality. The commission may make such bylaws for its government as it deems necessary but is under no duty to do so. The commission may appoint working subcommittees based on identified needs. These subcommittees may consist of noncommission members who exhibit an interest in the development of the aquaculture industry of Georgia.
(c) Eight members of the commission shall constitute a quorum necessary for the transaction of business, and a majority vote of those present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be sufficient to do and perform any action permitted the commission by this article. No vacancy on the commission shall impair the right of a quorum to transact any and all business of the commission.
(d) The members shall not receive compensation for their services on the commission but those members who are public officials or employees shall be reimbursed from the funds of their employing department, agency, or branch of government for per diem, travel, and other expenses in the same manner and amount as they otherwise receive for performing services for their respective departments, agencies, or branches of government.
(e) The commission shall meet upon the call of its chairman.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 74,§ 1, eff. 4/30/2009.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 13, eff. 7/1/2004.
