# § 27-4-91. Lawful devices generally

(a) Except as otherwise provided by law or regulation, it shall be unlawful for any person engaged in commercial fresh-water fishing in this state to use any gear other than trotlines, baskets in accordance with Code Section 27-4-92, turtle traps, or shad nets in accordance with Code Section 27-4-71, to which have been attached a tag bearing the name, address, and commercial fishing license number of the person using any such gear.
(b) For purposes of subsection (a) of this Code section, "trotlines" means one line which has more than 50 hooks in any combination or a combination of lines with more than 50 hooks in use by one person. The lines must be marked with visible buoys and must be attended regularly and removed after the completed fishing trip. The lines must be submerged at least three feet below the surface of the water. It shall be unlawful to keep any game fish, except flathead catfish, channel catfish, American shad, and hickory shad, taken with such lines.
(c) For purposes of subsection (a) of this Code section, turtle traps must be constructed of netting and shaped as hoop nets. The traps must also have one open muzzle or throat at least 32 inches wide with a ring ten inches in diameter made into the rear of the trap to permit fish to escape. Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, it shall be unlawful to use such traps in the Chattahoochee River and its impoundments lying between Georgia and Alabama. It shall also be unlawful to retain any game fish taken in such traps in any of the waters of this state.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 676,§; 12, eff. 1/1/2013.
