# § 27-4-211. Establishment of commission; members; terms of office; removal

(a) Pursuant to Article III of the compact, there shall be three members (hereinafter called commissioners) of the Atlantic States Marine Fisheries Commission (hereinafter called commission) from the State of Georgia. The first commissioner from the State of Georgia shall be the commissioner of natural resources ex officio; and the term of any such ex officio commissioner shall terminate at the time he ceases to hold the office of commissioner of natural resources; and his successor as commissioner shall be his successor as commissioner of natural resources. The second commissioner from the State of Georgia shall be a legislator and a member of the Commission on Interstate Cooperation of the State of Georgia ex officio, designated by the Commission on Interstate Cooperation; and the term of any such ex officio commissioner shall terminate at the time he ceases to hold such legislative office or office as commissioner on interstate cooperation; and his successor as commissioner shall be named in like manner. The Governor (by and with the advice and consent of the Senate) shall appoint a citizen as a third commissioner who shall have a knowledge of and interest in the marine fisheries problem. The term of the commissioner shall be three years, and he shall hold office until his successor shall be appointed and qualified. Vacancies occurring in the office of the commissioner for any reason or cause shall be filled by appointment by the Governor (by and with the advice and consent of the Senate) for the unexpired term.
(b) The commissioner of natural resources, as ex officio commissioner, may delegate, from time to time, to any deputy or other subordinate in his department or office the power to be present and participate, including voting as his representative or substitute, at any meeting of or hearing by or other proceeding of the commission.
(c) The terms of each of the initial three members shall begin at the date of the appointment of the appointive commissioner, provided the compact shall have then gone into effect in accordance with Article II of the compact; otherwise, they shall begin upon the date upon which the compact shall become effective in accordance with said Article II.
(d) Any commissioner may be removed from office by the Governor upon charges and after a hearing.
