# § 27-4-132.1. Limit on amount of shrimp fished by cast net; penalty for violation

(a)
  (1) No person or group of persons occupying the same boat fishing for shrimp for noncommercial purposes by means of a food shrimp cast net may take more than 48 quarts of shrimp with heads or 30 quarts of shrimp tails in any day. No such person or group of persons occupying the same vessel may possess at any time more than 48 quarts of shrimp with heads or 30 quarts of shrimp tails.
  (2) Reserved.
  (3)
    (A) No group of persons occupying the same boat, one or more of whom is in possession of a commercial food shrimp cast netting license and who are fishing for shrimp by means of a food shrimp cast net, may take more than 150 quarts of shrimp with heads or 95 quarts of shrimp tails taken by such cast net or a combination of a cast net and a seine in any day; provided, however, that beginning December 1 and until the close of each food shrimp season, possession shall be limited to 75 quarts of shrimp with heads or 48 quarts of shrimp tails in any day.
    (B) No such group of persons occupying the same vessel may possess at any time more than 150 quarts of shrimp with heads or 95 quarts of shrimp tails; provided, however, that beginning December 1 and until the close of each food shrimp season, no such group of persons occupying the same vessel may possess at any time more than 75 quarts of shrimp with heads or 48 quarts of shrimp tails.
  (4) No one person fishing for shrimp solely by means of a seine, whether such person is acting alone or in a group of persons, may take more than 24 quarts of shrimp with heads or 15 quarts of shrimp tails in any day. No such person may possess at any time more than 24 quarts of shrimp with heads or 15 quarts of shrimp tails. If any person or group of persons are in possession of a food shrimp cast net and a seine, such person or group of persons shall be subject to the limits imposed upon taking shrimp by food shrimp cast net.
  (5) No person or group of persons fishing for food shrimp for commercial purposes shall have on board a vessel any cast net other than a food shrimp cast net.
  (6) Reserved.
  (7) No vessel owner shall allow the vessel to be used by any person or persons to take more than the legal quantity allowable in any day regardless of the number of trips made or the duration of any trip by such vessel. It shall be unlawful for any vessel owner or operator to allow a vessel to be left anchored and unoccupied for the purpose of receiving shrimp taken by the occupant of any other vessel.
(b)
  (1) Violation of subsection (a) of this Code section shall constitute a misdemeanor.
  (2) In addition to any criminal penalties assessed, any person violating the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section shall pay a civil penalty in the amount of $50.00 for each quart of shrimp taken or possessed in excess of the allowable limit.
(c) Whenever the commissioner or his or her designee has reason to believe that any person has violated subsection (a) of this Code section or any rule or regulation promulgated to implement such subsection, he or she may request and shall receive a hearing before an administrative law judge of the Office of State Administrative Hearings acting in place of the Board of Natural Resources, as provided by Code Section 50-13-41. Upon finding that such person has violated subsection (a) of this Code section, the administrative law judge shall impose a civil penalty in the amount of $50.00 for each quart of shrimp taken or possessed in excess of the allowable limit. The decision of the administrative law judge shall constitute a final decision in the matter, and any party to the hearing, including the commissioner, shall have the right of judicial review thereof in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 35,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2007.
