# § 27-4-5. Methods for taking fish generally

(a) It shall be unlawful to fish for game fish, except American shad, hickory shad, flathead catfish, and channel catfish, by any means other than a pole and line. Except as otherwise provided, it shall be unlawful to take any fish in the fresh waters of this state by any method other than a pole and line, sport trotlines in accordance with Code Section 27-4-32, set hooks, jugs, bow and arrow in accordance with Code Section 27-4-34, spears in accordance with Code Section 27-4-33, minnow seines and minnow traps in accordance with Code Section 27-4-6, by hand in accordance with Code Section 27-4-37, and as authorized in Code Section 27-4-91 with regard to commercial fresh-water fishing.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, dip nets and cast nets may be used to take for bait threadfin shad, blueback herring, gizzard shad, and other nongame fish as authorized by the board; and landing nets may be used to land fish legally caught.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, it shall be lawful to use seines, nets, and chemicals in a pond if all the owners of a pond desire that such be done and if a local game warden is notified at least two hours in advance of the use, provided that it shall not be lawful to use such seines, nets, and chemicals in an oxbow lake. For purposes of this Code section, an "oxbow lake" means a lake formed in an abandoned river channel which has become separated from the main stream by a natural change in the river.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 32,§ 2-5, eff. 4/27/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 264,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 676,§; 3, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 411,§; 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
