# § 27-4-92. Lawful baskets

(a) Except as otherwise provided by law or regulation, it shall be unlawful to fish with any basket unless such basket is constructed of one-inch mesh wire and is not more than 72 inches in length and 60 inches in circumference. One throat shall be located at the extreme front of the basket, and the second throat shall be located 17 inches behind the first. The second throat shall have a trap door 7 1/2 inches square.
(b) It shall be unlawful to fish with baskets in fresh-water flowing streams. It shall also be unlawful to fish with a basket without notifying the game warden in the area of the time and place such basket is to be used.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any basket or trap made of metal, wire, wood, fabric, or other material suitable for use or capable of use in taking fish from the waters of this state unless the person has a commercial fishing license and unless an identification tag as required in Code Section 27-4-91 is attached to the basket or trap; provided, however, that the owner of a private pond may possess and use a basket or trap for taking fish therefrom without the necessity of obtaining a commercial fishing license; provided, further, that baskets meeting the requirements of subsection (a) of this Code section may be possessed for the purpose of sale and may be sold at a regularly established place for sale without the owner or operator of the place obtaining a commercial fishing license.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, it shall be unlawful to take any game fish, except flathead catfish and channel catfish, with baskets.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision to the contrary, it shall be unlawful for any person to fish with more than five baskets in the waters of Lake Sinclair and Lake Oconee. No person shall fish with the baskets of other persons unless accompanied by such other persons at the time of such fishing.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 264,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2019.
