# § 27-4-11.1. Possession of firearms and intoxication on public fishing areas; fishing in closed fishing areas; other restrictions in public fishing areas

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person on any public fishing area owned or operated by the department:
  (1) To possess a firearm other than a handgun, as such term is defined in Code Section 16-11-125.1, during a closed hunting season for that area unless such firearm is unloaded and stored in a motor vehicle so as not to be readily accessible or to possess a handgun during a closed hunting season for that area unless such person is a lawful weapons carrier as defined in Code Section 16-11-125.1;
  (2) To possess a loaded firearm other than a handgun, as such term is defined in Code Section 16-11-125.1, in a motor vehicle during a legal open hunting season for that area or to possess a loaded handgun in a motor vehicle during a legal open hunting season for that area unless such person is a lawful weapons carrier as defined in Code Section 16-11-125.1; or
  (3) To be under the influence of drugs, intoxicating liquors, beers, or wines. The determination of whether any person is under the influence of drugs or intoxicating liquors, beers, or wines may be made in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 3 of this title relating to hunting while under the influence of drugs or alcohol.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to fish at any time in any pond or lake on a public fishing area owned or operated by the department which has been posted "closed" by the department for purposes of fisheries management or to take or possess any species or any size of any species or to exceed the creel limit of any species at any time from any pond or lake on a public fishing area which has been posted with a sign which states that that species or size may not be taken or that creel limit exceeded. Creel and size limits posted as permissible must be within the limits set forth in Code Section 27-4-10 and, if applicable, the limits set by the board pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to take in one day or to possess at any one time any number of fish caught from public fishing areas except in compliance with limits set by rule and regulation of the board, which limits shall not be more than the maximum limit for that species set forth in Code Section 27-4-10.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any person to fish or to be present on any public fishing area except in accordance with rules and regulations established by the board for the use of such area. The board shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations governing methods of fishing; to regulate the operation and use of vessels; to close the area or certain ponds or lakes of the area to vessels; and to regulate other matters that the board deems necessary for the safe operation and sound management of the area.
(e) It shall be unlawful on any public fishing area for any person to drive or otherwise operate a vehicle on any road posted "closed" to vehicular access, to drive around a closed gate or cable blocking a road, or to drive on any road that is not improved in that it is not receiving maintenance for the purpose of vehicular access. It shall be unlawful for any person to park a vehicle at any place within a public fishing area, including upon the right of way of any county, state, or federal highway which traverses the public fishing area, where signs placed at the direction of the commissioner or his or her designee prohibit parking.
(f) It shall be unlawful for any person to camp anywhere on any public fishing area except in those areas designated by appropriate signs as camping areas.
(g) It shall be unlawful for persons under 14 years of age to enter or remain upon any public fishing area unless such person is under adult supervision. It shall be unlawful for any person to cause or knowingly to permit his or her ward who is under 14 years of age to enter or remain upon any public fishing area unless such child or ward is under adult supervision.
(h) It shall be unlawful for any person who has fished at a public fishing area to refuse to allow department personnel to count, measure, and weigh his or her catch.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 596,§ 16, eff. 4/12/2022.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 643,§ 2-15, eff. 6/4/2010.
