# § 27-4-33. Spearing of fish

(a) It shall be unlawful to spear game fish and all species of catfish in the fresh waters of this state except as provided in this Code section; provided, however, other species of nongame fish may be speared solely for the purpose of sport, provided the person engaged in the act of spearing is completely submerged.
(b) "Spearing" as used in this Code section shall be limited to the use of a spear or similar instrument that is held in the hand of the person using the same and the use of a weapon other than a firearm which propels or forces a projectile or similar device therefrom, to which a wire, rope, line, cord, or other means of recovering the projectile or similar device is attached, which wire, rope, line, cord, or other means is secured to the weapon or the person using the weapon.
(c) It shall also be unlawful for any person to engage in the spearing of fish in the fresh waters of this state without a resident or nonresident fishing license as provided in Code Section 27-2-23.
(d) It shall be unlawful to use spears with poisonous or exploding heads.
(e) It shall be unlawful to discharge spears into waters nearer than 150 feet to anyone engaged in any other means of recreation.
(f) Any game fish, except channel catfish and flathead catfish taken under the provisions of subsection (g) of this Code section, with an open wound and in the possession of a person fishing with a spear shall be prima-facie evidence of taking and possessing fish illegally.
(g) It shall be unlawful to take channel catfish and flathead catfish anywhere in the Savannah River, including its tributaries and impoundments within the Savannah River Basin, by means of spearing, except under the following conditions:
  (1) The taking of channel catfish and flathead catfish in the Savannah River, including its tributaries and impoundments within the Savannah River Basin, by spear shall be legal at any time of the day and at night by the use of a light; and
  (2) All spears used pursuant to this subsection must be equipped with barbs or contain devices on the point to act as a harpoon for recovering fish and must be attached to the person using the spear or to the weapon by a rope, line, or cord sufficient for recovering the spear and channel catfish or flathead catfish.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 411,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
