# § 27-4-133. Lawful nets; opening and closing waters; identification on boats fishing for shrimp

(a) Except as otherwise specifically provided, it shall be unlawful for any person to use a power-drawn net in any of the salt waters of this state for commercial shrimping for human consumption. All sounds shall be closed to such fishing, except that the commissioner may open Cumberland, St. Simons, Sapelo, St. Andrew, Wassaw, or Ossabaw sounds or any combination of such sounds at any time between September 1 and December 31, provided that he or she has determined that the shrimp in the waters of each sound to be opened are 45 or fewer shrimp with heads on to the pound; and the commissioner shall close each sound so opened when he or she has determined that the shrimp in the waters of the sound exceed 45 shrimp with heads on to the pound. The commissioner may open any waters outside, on the seaward side, of the sounds between May 15 and December 31, provided that he or she has determined that the shrimp in such outside waters are 45 or fewer shrimp with heads on to the pound; and the commissioner shall close the waters so opened when he or she has determined that the shrimp in such outside waters exceed 45 shrimp with heads on to the pound. The commissioner may open any waters outside the sounds during the months of January and February, provided that he or she has determined that the shrimp in such outside waters are 50 or fewer shrimp with heads on to the pound; and the commissioner shall close such outside waters so opened when he or she has determined that the shrimp in such outside waters exceed 50 shrimp with heads on to the pound. The department shall conduct inspections for such shrimp count, and a determination by the commissioner shall be conclusive as to the count. The commissioner shall provide public notice of the opening and closing of such waters, as provided in this Code section, by posting a notice of all openings and closings at the courthouse and on all shrimp docks and by such other means as may appear feasible. The notices shall be posted at least 24 hours prior to any change in the opening and closing of any such waters, provided that such notice is required only when waters are opened or closed by action of the commissioner.
(a.1)
  (1) It shall be unlawful to fish for shrimp for human consumption with any trawl or trawls having a total foot-rope length greater than 220 feet, not including the foot-rope length of a single trawl not greater than 16 feet when used as a try net. Foot-rope shall be measured from brail line to brail line, first tie to last tie on the bottom line. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to vessels having a maximum draft of seven feet or less when fully loaded. The department is authorized to exempt trawls used by persons holding a valid scientific collection permit granted by the department.
  (2) A vessel operator who violates the provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall be fined not less than $500.00 nor more than $2,500.00, imprisoned for not longer than 30 days, or both, and any trawl on board the vessel shall be contraband and forfeited in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9.
(b) Reserved.
(c) Except as otherwise specifically provided, it shall be unlawful to fish with nets other than cast nets in any of the tidal rivers or creeks, except to fish for shad, provided that nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed so as to prohibit any person from using a beach seine along any public beach.
(d) The department shall have the power to close all or any portion of the salt waters of this state to commercial and recreational fishing in the event of a disaster likely to cause seafood to be unfit for human consumption or in the event of any other emergency situation.
(e) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit any person from fishing in the salt waters of this state for shrimp to be used or sold for live bait pursuant to Code Section 27-4-171, provided that it shall be unlawful to fish for shrimp for bait with any trawl equipment which has been used to fish for shrimp pursuant to this Code section.
(f) In accordance with current, sound principles of wildlife research and management, the commissioner may authorize any person to fish for crabs, jellyfish, or whelks with power-drawn nets of four-inch stretched mesh from any waters outside, on the seaward side, of the sounds at any time during the year, or from the waters of Cumberland, St. Simons, Sapelo, St. Andrew, Wassaw, and Ossabaw sounds during the months of January, February, and March, when the commissioner has determined that fishing for crabs, jellyfish, or whelks within such waters will not be detrimental to the conservation of crabs, jellyfish, whelks, or shrimp. Possession of any net with mesh smaller than that provided in this subsection while taking crabs, jellyfish, or whelks shall be prima-facie evidence of the violation of this Code section.
(g) It shall be unlawful for any person fishing for shrimp for commercial purposes pursuant to this Code section to fail to have positioned on the bow or cabin of the boat taking such shrimp a board with a background color of daylight fluorescent orange and with such numerals and letters painted or affixed thereon as are specified by the department for the boat. The numerals and letters shall be at least 16 inches in height, black in color, of block character, and spaced so as to be readable from the air from left to right.
(h) Any determination to open or close the salt waters pursuant to this Code section shall be made in accordance with current, sound principles of wildlife research and management.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 3-20, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 676,§; 22, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 35,§; 11, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 814, §; 1, eff. 5/13/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 331, §;1, eff. 4/27/2001.
