# § 27-4-194. Minimum size of shellfish which may be taken for commercial or noncommercial purposes

(a)
  (1) It shall be unlawful to take any oysters for noncommercial purposes when the shells of the oysters measure less than three inches from hinge to mouth, except that oysters less than three inches from hinge to mouth may be removed if attached to an oyster of that minimum size and the oyster so attached cannot be removed without destroying the three-inch oyster.
  (2) It shall be unlawful to take any oysters for commercial purposes when the shells of the oysters measure less than two inches from hinge to mouth, except that oysters less than two inches from hinge to mouth may be removed if attached to an oyster of that minimum size and the oyster to which it is so attached cannot be removed without destroying the two-inch oyster.
  (3) It shall be unlawful for any person engaged in shucking or canning oysters for market to shuck, can, purchase, or have in possession any quantity of oysters containing more than 5 percent of oysters of prohibited size as defined in this Code section. Smaller oysters may be taken incidentally with such minimum-size oysters when they are directly attached to the minimum-size oysters. Oysters of prohibited size as defined in this Code section may be taken or possessed if prior written approval has been obtained from the department and such approval is on the person of the harvester or person in possession of the oyster.
(b) It shall be unlawful to take or possess any clam for commercial or recreational purposes when the maximum depth of the shell of the clam measures less than three-fourths' inch thickness from one shell half to the other unless prior written approval has been obtained from the department and such approval is on the person of the harvester or person in possession of the clam.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 217,§ 1, eff. 3/1/2020.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 676,§; 28, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 303, §; 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
