# § 27-4-37. Taking of fish by grabbling, noodling, or hand grabbing

(a) It shall be unlawful to fish for game fish, catfish, and all other species of fish in the freshwaters of the state by grabbling, noodling, or hand grabbing except as provided in this Code section. Flathead, channel, and blue catfish may be taken by hand without the aid of any device, hook, snare, net, or other artificial instrument and without the aid of any scuba equipment, air hose, or other artificial breathing apparatus between March 1 and July 15 of each year.
(b) It shall be unlawful to alter any natural or manmade feature by placing boards, wire, barrels, buckets, or any device or obstruction in any stream or other body of water or to modify any log, hole, or other feature in an attempt to attract or capture fish by grabbling, noodling, or hand grabbing or to take fish by grabbling, noodling, or hand grabbing from such altered devices. It shall also be unlawful to raise any part of a natural or artificial device out of the water to aid in the hand capture of enclosed fish.
(c) Any game fish, except channel and flathead catfish, taken in violation of the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section that are in the possession of a person grabbling, noodling, or hand grabbing fish shall be prima-facie evidence of taking and possessing fish illegally.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the grabbling, noodling, or hand grabbing of flathead, channel, or blue catfish in the fresh waters of this state without a resident or nonresident fishing license as provided in Code Section 27-2-23.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 27, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 411,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2005.
