# § 27-4-199. Evidence of intent to use as food; inspection of businesses

(a) The distribution, sale, or possession with intent to distribute or sell any shellfish shall be prima-facie evidence that the shellfish were intended for use as food unless prior written approval from the department authorizing such possession of shellfish is presented.
(b) Game wardens and other authorized personnel of the department are authorized to take samples from, to enter and have access to, and to examine during normal working hours and at any time when the licensed or authorized activity is being conducted all water bottoms, places of business, and other places where shellfish are grown, kept, stored, sold, or held in possession with intent to distribute, sell, or give away. Such personnel are also authorized at any time to take such samples of shellfish as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this article and to have access to and take samples from all streams, tributaries thereof, and lands adjacent thereto, the waters draining from which may come into contact with shellfish. It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct or in any way interfere with any game warden or other authorized personnel of the department in carrying out the purposes of this article.
(c) Prior to and at point of landing game wardens and other authorized personnel of the department are authorized to seize, confiscate, and remove any and all shellfish discovered which were taken or possessed in violation of this article. Whenever a game warden or other authorized personnel of the department believes that shellfish examined may have been taken, contained, or stored in such a manner that may render the shellfish adulterated, misbranded, tainted, or otherwise which may pose a public health problem, the game warden or other authorized personnel of the department is authorized to seize, confiscate, and remove any and all shellfish. Such shellfish shall be destroyed or returned to the resource according to methods as the department may prescribe.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 264,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 217,§ 1, eff. 3/1/2020.
