# § 27-4-171. Bait shrimping

(a)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to fish for shrimp for live bait to be sold, to engage in the sale of shrimp for live bait, or to engage in the sale of shrimp for dead bait unless the person has a bait dealer license and possesses a valid personal commercial fishing license as provided in Code Section 27-2-23 or is an employee of a licensed bait dealer and possesses a valid personal commercial fishing license as provided in Code Section 27-2-23; provided, however, that no cashier employed by a licensed bait dealer and not actively involved in the harvest of bait shrimp shall be required to obtain a commercial fishing license under this Code section. No bait dealer license shall be issued to a person holding a commercial food shrimp cast netting license issued pursuant to Part 5 of this article. Any license issued pursuant to this Code section shall be invalid immediately upon the holder's obtaining such a commercial food shrimp cast netting license. No bait dealer license shall be issued for an individual whose establishment is located on any dock or other facility, including platforms, walkways, and buildings, which is one contiguous unit and where shrimp taken pursuant to Code Section 27-4-133 are processed, stored, or sold for retail purposes.
  (2) In addition to complying with subsection (b) of this Code section, any applicant for a bait dealer license must first file with the commissioner a forfeiture bond in the form prescribed by the department, executed by a bonding, surety, or insurance company licensed to do business in this state, in favor of the state in the amount of $2,000.00, conditioned upon the faithful compliance by the person and all his or her employees with all the laws and regulations relating to the taking, possession, and sale of bait shrimp, provided that a cash forfeiture bond in like amount may be substituted in lieu of the commercial bond provided for in this Code section. The term of the bond shall be one year and shall correspond to the period of the bait dealer license, which shall be from April 1 to March 31. The bond shall be in addition to the commercial fishing boat license, where applicable, required by Code Section 27-2-8 and in addition to the personal commercial fishing license required by this Code section. Notation of execution of the bond shall be stamped or endorsed on the applicant's bait dealer license.
  (3) Trawler licenses for bait shrimp trawling shall not be issued to any person who does not possess a valid bait dealer license unless such person is an employee of a licensed bait dealer.
  (4) In addition to the general provisions of this Code section and in accordance with current, sound principles of wildlife research and management, the board is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations establishing the seasons, days, and places; methods of fishing and disposition; and size, creel, and possession limits for commercial bait shrimping.
  (5) It shall be unlawful for any person fishing for shrimp for live bait pursuant to this Code section to:
    (A) Hold a valid commercial food shrimp cast netting license issued pursuant to Part 5 of this article or to employ any person holding such a commercial food shrimp cast netting license;
    (B) Fish for shrimp pursuant to this Code section in closed waters. All salt waters of this state shall be closed to fishing for shrimp pursuant to this Code section, except those rivers or creeks or portions thereof opened to such taking. The determination of whether to open or close a river or creek or portion thereof shall be made by the commissioner in accordance with current, sound principles of wildlife research and management; and
    (C) Fail to maintain on the commercial fishing boat bait-holding facilities which comply with the requirements set forth by the board.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to sell or otherwise dispose of, for human consumption, any shrimp caught pursuant to this Code section or to possess such shrimp for the purpose of sale or other distribution for human consumption or personally to consume such shrimp. Possession of shrimp with heads off shall be prima-facie evidence that the shrimp are to be sold for human consumption or are personally to be consumed. Possession of more than 20 quarts of unlabeled, unpackaged, or unfrozen heads-on shrimp shall be prima-facie evidence that such shrimp are to be used for human consumption or are personally to be consumed.
(c) This Code section shall not prohibit the interstate import of bait shrimp provided that a bona fide bill of lading accompanies such shrimp as proof that such shrimp were not taken or transported in violation of this Code section or the laws of the jurisdiction from which the bait shrimp originated.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any person fishing for shrimp pursuant to this Code section to fail to have positioned on the bow or cabin of the boat being used for fishing for shrimp a board with a background color of daylight fluorescent orange with such numerals and letters painted or affixed thereon as are specified by the department for a particular established bait dealership. The numerals and letters shall be at least 16 inches in height and two inches in width or thickness, black in color, of block character, clearly legible, and spaced so as to be readable from the air from left to right. The numerals and letters required for compliance with this subsection shall be assigned by the department at the time a bait dealer license is issued pursuant to Code Section 27-2-23.
(e) The department shall inspect the bait dealer facilities within 30 days from the time application for license is received to ensure the facilities comply with the requirements of this Code section and Code Section 48-8-59 before issuing a bait dealer license.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 676,§; 25, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 35,§; 16, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 325, §; 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
