# § 27-4-150. Taking, possessing, and dealing in crabs and peelers; required records

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to take or possess in this state any crab, other than a mature adult female crab, measuring less than five inches from spike to spike across the back; provided, however, that any person may take or possess peelers measuring at least three inches from spike to spike across the back. Any crabs taken or possessed in violation of this paragraph may not be intentionally killed and must be returned to the salt waters of this state as soon as possible; provided, however, nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit any person from importing, transporting, or possessing crabs when such person can provide documentary evidence showing that the crabs were taken outside this state in full compliance with the laws of the state of origin. He or she must have an executed invoice showing the point of origin of such crabs and exhibit such an invoice upon demand to any game warden.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person other than a licensed commercial fisherman or licensed commercial crab fisherman to take or possess commercial quantities of crabs, other than soft-shelled crabs, during any 24 hour period; provided, however, nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit a person from possessing commercial quantities of such crabs when the person can provide documentary evidence showing that the crabs were purchased from a licensed commercial fisherman, a licensed commercial crab fisherman, or any person licensed to engage in the business of selling seafood or were purchased outside this state.
(c)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person other than a licensed commercial crab fisherman or a licensed soft-shell crab dealer to take or possess peelers in commercial quantities; provided, however, it shall be lawful for any person to possess such amount of peelers when the person can provide documentary evidence showing that the peelers were purchased from a licensed soft-shell crab dealer or any person licensed to engage in the business of selling seafood or were purchased outside the state.
  (2) It shall be unlawful for any person taking peelers to sell the peelers to any person other than a licensed soft-shell crab dealer.
  (3) It shall be unlawful for a soft-shell crab dealer to purchase peelers from any person other than a licensed commercial crab fisherman or another soft-shell crab dealer, provided that it shall be lawful for a soft-shell crab dealer to purchase peelers from any person outside this state, or from outside this state.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any person other than a licensed soft-shell crab dealer to operate a shedding facility for commercial purposes.
(e)
  (1) Except as provided in Code Section 27-4-133, only a person in possession of a valid commercial crabbing license may operate a commercial fishing boat for the purpose of commercial crabbing activities as provided for in subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section. Such license shall be distinct from and in addition to the commercial fishing boat license required by Code Section 27-2-8.
  (2) On and after May 1, 2013, the total number of new commercial crabbing licenses issued shall not exceed 100. Those commercial crabbing licenses issued prior to May 1, 2013, shall remain active until such time the license is not renewed. Any license which is not renewed by May 1 of any license year shall revert to the department for reissue by lottery devised and operated by the department. No person may hold more than one license at any time.
  (3) Commercial crabbing licenses may be sold for consideration to any person not holding a current commercial crabbing license unless otherwise prohibited by law or regulation.
  (4) Commercial crabbing licenses may be transferred to the licensee's spouse, lineal descendants, siblings, or lineal ancestors if the licensee dies or is permanently and totally disabled. An instrument of the court declaring the rightful heir or recipient may be required for transfers upon a death. For purposes of this Code section, a permanent, total disability shall be a physical or mental impairment of a total and permanent nature which prevents gainful employment and which is certified as such by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, the Social Security Administration, Medicaid, medicare, the Railroad Retirement System, or a unit of federal, state, or local government recognized by the board by rule or regulation. The transferee of a license so transferred shall engage in commercial crabbing as evidenced by his or her commercial crab harvest records within two years after such transfer or the license shall revert to the department for reissue as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection. Any person receiving a commercial crabbing license by transfer shall register such transfer with the department and pay to the department the license fee, if so required, within 30 days following the date of the transfer.
(f)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for anyone engaged in commercial fishing for crabs in the salt waters of this state to fail to maintain at all times a record book showing the amount of crabs caught daily; the name and address of the person or persons to whom sold; the date of sale and the time and place of delivery; and such other information as may be required by the department. If no fishing occurred during any calendar month, a report stating such must be filed.
  (2) Each person required to maintain records pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall report such information to the department at such time and in such manner as the board provides by rule or regulation. Such records shall be deemed provided in accordance with the provisions of this subsection on the date they were postmarked with the correct address and postage.
  (3) Any person who fails to report records as required by the provisions of paragraph (2) of this subsection within 60 days of the date such report is due shall be penalized as follows:
    (A) On a first offense, the person shall pay a fine of $250.00;
    (B) On a second offense, the person shall pay a fine of $500.00; and
    (C) On a third or any subsequent offense, the person shall pay a fine of $500.00, and his or her commercial crabbing license shall be suspended for a period of ten days.
  (4) Any licensed crabber who has not submitted all harvest records for the previous year, as required by paragraph (2) of this subsection and all pertinent rules and regulations, shall be ineligible for license renewal until such time as the required records have been submitted and all penalties paid.
(g) Any person violating the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction, shall pay a fine as follows:
  (1) For a first offense, the person shall pay a fine of $250.00;
  (2) For a second offense, the person shall pay a fine of $500.00, and his or her commercial crabbing and commercial fishing boat licenses shall be suspended for ten days and may not be used by any person; and
  (3) For a third and each subsequent offense, the person shall pay a fine of $1,000.00, and his or her commercial crabbing and commercial fishing boat licenses shall be suspended for 60 days and may not be used by any person. Any person whose license is so suspended shall remove all of his or her traps from the water not later than ten days after the first day of the suspension.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 264,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 712,§ 1B, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 27, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 27, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 111,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 824, § 1, eff. 5/13/2002.
