# § 15-1-14. Rules and requirements for foreign language and hearing impaired interpreters

(a) The Supreme Court of Georgia shall establish rules and requirements for foreign language interpreters and interpreters for the hearing impaired utilized in the courts of this state and provide for the administration and enforcement of such rules. The Administrative Office of the Courts shall administer such rules, requirements, and enforcement.
(b) The Supreme Court may establish fees to be paid by persons desiring certification to cover the costs of certifying, regulating, and training court qualified interpreters.
(c) The Supreme Court may enter into and participate in the Consortium for Language Access in the Courts and in other similar multistate agreements and cooperative programs for the training, testing, and certification of interpreters. Such consortia, multistate agreements, and cooperative programs may:
  (1) Utilize the auspices and services of the National Center for State Courts;
  (2) Provide for the common development, sharing, and distribution of tests, standards, educational materials, and programs and related work, and further provide for the copyright and other protection of intellectual property;
  (3) Charge fees for membership and other services and retain funds;
  (4) Provide for governance and management; and
  (5) Perform such other services and functions as may be reasonably related to such purposes and functions.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 20, eff. 1/1/2013.
