# § 15-1-18. Council of Accountability Court Judges of Georgia; creation; membership; funding; support

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Accountability court" means a superior, state, or juvenile court that has a drug court division, mental health court division, veterans court division, juvenile treatment court division, operating under the influence court division, or a juvenile court that has a family treatment court division.
  (2) "Council" means the Council of Accountability Court Judges of Georgia.
(b) There is created an accountability court judges' council to be known as the "Council of Accountability Court Judges of Georgia." Such council shall be composed of the judges, senior judges, and judges emeriti of the accountability courts of this state.
(c) The council shall be authorized to organize itself and to develop a constitution and bylaws. The council shall promulgate rules and regulations as it deems necessary. The council shall annually elect a chairperson from among its membership. The council may appoint such committees as it considers necessary to carry out its duties and responsibilities, including appointing judges serving in other courts to serve in an advisory capacity to the council.
(d) It shall be the purpose of the council to effectuate the constitutional and statutory responsibilities conferred upon it by law and to further the improvement of accountability courts, the quality and expertise of the judges thereof, and the administration of justice.
(e) Expenses of the administration of the council shall be paid from state funds appropriated for that purpose, from federal funds available to the council for such purpose, or from other appropriate sources. The council shall be authorized to accept and use gifts, grants, and donations for the purposes of carrying out this Code section. The council shall be authorized to accept and use property, both real and personal, and services for the purposes of carrying out this Code section.
(f) The Criminal Justice Coordinating Council shall provide technical services to the council and shall assist the council in complying with all its legal requirements.
(g) The Administrative Office of the Courts shall provide the council with office space and administrative support, including staff for record keeping, reporting, and related administrative and clerical functions.
(h) Appropriations to the Administrative Office of the Courts for functions transferred to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council pursuant to this Code section shall be transferred as provided in Code Section 45-12-90. Personnel previously employed by the Administrative Office of the Courts and equipment and facilities of the Administrative Office of the Courts shall likewise be transferred to the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council. Such transfers shall be as determined by the director of the Administrative Office of the Courts.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 576,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 74,§ 5-4, eff. 7/1/2015.
