# § 15-1-9.3. Senior judge of state court, probate court, or juvenile court; capital cases

(a)
  (1) Any state court judge or juvenile court judge who retires pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 23 of Title 47 after having served for ten or more years in any combination of service as a judge of a state court or juvenile court may be appointed a senior judge of the type of court from which the judge retired.
  (2) Any state court or juvenile court judge, whether or not said judge is a member of the retirement fund created by Chapter 23 of Title 47, who ceases holding office as a judge and who has at least ten years in any combination of service as judge of a state court or juvenile court at the time of ceasing to hold office and who is not eligible for appointment to the office of senior judge under any other law of this state may be appointed as a senior judge as provided in this Code section.
  (3) No judge of a state court or juvenile court who retires because of disability pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 23 of Title 47 shall be eligible for appointment as a senior judge pursuant to the provisions of this Code section.
  (4) In this paragraph, "probate court" has the same meaning as set out in paragraph (2) of Code Section 15-9-120. Any judge of the probate court who ceases holding office as a judge of the probate court after serving as such for at least ten years and who has not been appointed to the office of senior judge under any other law of this state may be appointed as a senior judge as provided in this Code section.
(b) Upon becoming eligible for appointment pursuant to the provisions of this Code section, a judge who ceases to hold office may become a senior judge and in that capacity may be called upon to serve as a justice or judge in any court of this state.
(c) Senior judge status shall be acquired by a qualified former judge's applying to the Governor for appointment as senior judge. The Governor shall appoint each qualified applicant as a senior judge.
(d) The judge of any court of this state may make a written request for assistance to a senior judge. The request by the judge may be made if one of the following circumstances arise:
  (1) A judge of the requesting court is disqualified for any cause from presiding in any matter pending before the court;
  (2) A judge of the requesting court is unable to preside because of disability, illness, or absence; or
  (3) A majority of the judges of the requesting court determines that the business of the court requires the temporary assistance of an additional judge or additional judges as provided for in Code Section 15-1-9.1.
(e) An active judge may call upon a senior judge to serve in an emergency or when the volume of cases or other unusual circumstances cause such service to be necessary in order to provide for the timely and efficient disposition of the business of the court.
(f) A senior judge shall receive compensation and expenses as provided in subsection (d) of Code Section 15-1-9.2.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Code section, a senior judge shall not be assigned, designated, or preside in any criminal case involving a capital offense for which the death penalty may be imposed once the state has filed a notice of its intention to seek the death penalty; provided, however, that a senior judge may be assigned, designated, or preside in such a case if the judge had previously been assigned or designated and presided over such case while serving as an elected superior court judge prior to attaining senior judge status.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 729,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2008.
