# § 31-41-4. Establishment of lead-based paint hazard reduction program; training programs; licensure and certification requirements; written information on renovation; record-keeping requirements

(a) There is established the Georgia Lead-Based Paint Hazard Reduction Program. The Department of Natural Resources is designated as the state agency responsible for implementation, administration, and enforcement of such program. The commissioner may delegate such duties to the Environmental Protection Division.
(b) The Board of Natural Resources not later than one year after the effective date of regulations promulgated by the federal Environmental Protection Agency relating to lead paint abatement and renovation certification programs shall issue regulations requiring the development and approval of training programs for the licensing or certification of persons performing lead-based paint hazard detection or lead-based paint activities, which may include, but shall not be limited to, lead inspectors, lead risk assessors, lead project designers, lead firms, lead supervisors, lead workers, lead dust sampling technicians, and renovators. The regulations for the approval of training programs shall include minimum requirements for approval of training providers, curriculum requirements, training hour requirements, hands-on training requirements, examinations of competency and proficiency, and training program quality control. The approval program shall provide for reciprocal approval of training programs with comparable requirements approved by other states or the United States. The approval program may be designed to meet the minimum requirements for federal approval under Section 404 of the federal Toxic Substances Control Act and the department may apply for such approval. The department shall establish fees for approval of such training programs.
(c)
  (1) The Board of Natural Resources not later than one year after the effective date of regulations promulgated by the federal Environmental Protection Agency relating to lead paint abatement and renovation certification programs shall establish training and licensure requirements for lead inspectors, lead risk assessors, lead project designers, lead firms, lead supervisors, lead workers, renovators, renovation firms, and lead dust sampling technicians. No person shall be licensed under this chapter unless such person has successfully completed the appropriate training program, passed an examination approved by the department for the appropriate category of license, and completed any additional requirements imposed by the board by regulation. The department is authorized to accept any lead-based paint hazard training completed after January 1, 1990, in full or partial satisfaction of the training requirements. The board may establish requirements for periodic refresher training for all licensees as a condition of license renewal. The board shall establish examination fees, license fees, and renewal fees for all licenses issued under this chapter, provided that such fees shall reflect the cost of issuing and renewing such licenses, regulating licensed activities, and administering the program.
  (2) On and after the effective date of regulations promulgated by the board as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, no person shall perform or represent that such person is qualified to perform any lead-based paint activities unless such person possesses the appropriate licensure or certification as determined by the board or unless such person is:
    (A) An owner performing abatement or renovation upon that person's own residential property, unless the residential property is occupied by a person or persons other than the owner or the owner's immediate family while these activities are being performed, or a child residing in the building has been identified as having an elevated blood lead level;
    (B) An employee of a property management company doing minor repairs and maintenance activities upon property managed by that company where there is insignificant damage, wear, or corrosion of existing lead-containing paint or coating substances; or
    (C) An owner routinely doing minor repairs and maintenance activities upon his or her property where there is insignificant damage to, wear of, or corrosion of existing lead-containing paint or coating substances.
  (3) A person who is employed by a state or county health department or state or federal agency to conduct lead investigations to determine the sources of lead poisonings, as determined by the department, shall be subject to licensing pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection as a lead inspector or lead risk assessor but shall not be required to pay any fees as otherwise required under this chapter or under rules and regulations promulgated by the board under this chapter.
(d) The board shall promulgate regulations establishing standards of acceptable professional conduct and work practices for the performance of lead-based paint activities, as well as specific acts and omissions that constitute grounds for the reprimand of any licensee, the suspension, modification, or revocation of a license, or the denial of issuance or renewal of a license.
(e) Written information on the renovation must be provided by the renovation firm or renovator to residents before beginning any renovation activities (except that the written information may be provided after the renovation begins for emergency renovations), in accordance with regulations promulgated by the board.
(f) The lead firm, renovation firm, and renovator must meet record-keeping and reporting requirements established by regulations promulgated by the board.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 776,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 488,§ 6, eff. 5/24/2010.
