# § 31-41-11. Legislative findings

(a) The General Assembly finds that childhood lead poisoning prevention activities are currently carried out within the Environmental Health, Epidemiology, and Laboratory sections of the Department of Public Health. These activities include lead poisoning case identification, laboratory support, identification of exposure sources, environmental management, and lead hazard reduction. Childhood lead poisoning cases are identified through screening tests conducted by public health clinics and private health care providers and by laboratory reporting of test results. In 1994, lead poisoning was established as a notifiable condition and made part of the Notifiable Disease reporting system.
(b) The General Assembly further finds that the Georgia Public Health Laboratory is licensed and certified to analyze blood specimens for lead. Laboratory services are provided for children screened in public health clinics and for children without health insurance screened by private health care providers. For each reported case of lead poisoning, an environmental investigation is conducted to identify the source of lead. Environmental health specialists assess the primary residence and other locations frequented by the lead poisoned child. Information is collected from parents and caregivers; on-site surface testing and environmental sample collection and analysis are done as needed. When the lead source is identified, recommendations are made for the mitigation or abatement of the lead hazard. Identified lead poisoning cases are tracked collaboratively by public health nurses and environmental health specialists to assure that appropriate treatment is received and that the child does not reenter the environment where the exposure occurred.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 776,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2000 Ga. Laws 794, § 2, which enacted this act, provides: "The provisions of this Act relating to enforcement of recommendations for abatement or mitigation of a lead hazard shall become effective upon the receipt of funds by the Department of Public Health in the form of a grant for such specific purpose awarded by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention."
