# § 31-41-2. Legislative findings

(a) The General Assembly finds that childhood lead poisoning is a devastating environmental health hazard to the children of this state. Exposure to even low levels of lead increases a child's risks of developing permanent reading and learning disabilities, intelligence quotient deficiencies, impaired hearing, reduced attention span, hyperactivity, behavior problems, and other neurological problems. It is estimated that thousands of children below the age of six are affected by lead poisoning in Georgia. Childhood lead poisoning is dangerous to the public health, safety, and general welfare.
(b) Childhood lead poisoning is the result of environmental exposure to lead. The most significant source of environmental lead is lead-based paint, particularly in housing built prior to 1978, which becomes accessible to children as paint chips, house dust, and soil contaminated by lead-based paint. The danger posed by lead-based paint hazards can be controlled by abatement, renovation, or interim controls of lead-based paint or by measures to limit exposure to lead-based paint hazards.
(c) It is crucial that the identification of lead hazards and subsequent implementation of interim control, renovation, or abatement procedures be accomplished in a manner that does not result in additional harm to the public or the environment. Improper lead abatement or renovation constitutes a serious threat to persons residing in or otherwise using an affected structure or site, to those performing such work, to the environment, and to the general public.
(d) The General Assembly finds that it is in the public interest to establish minimum standards for the training and certification or licensure of all persons performing lead hazard reduction activities and for inspections, risk assessments, and planning and performance of interim controls, renovation, or abatement measures for such activities.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 488,§ 6, eff. 5/24/2010.
