# § 31-41-6. Federal regulations; fees; corrective orders; violations

(a) The department shall make available to all persons licensed or certified under this chapter current federal regulations affecting such licensees or certified persons.
(b) The department is authorized to charge an application fee, a license fee, a license renewal fee, or a similar fee and the amount of such fees shall be established by the Board of Natural Resources. Each fee so established shall be reasonable and shall be determined in such a manner that the total of the fees charged shall approximate the total of the direct and the indirect costs to the state of the operation of the licensing program. Fees may be refunded for good cause as determined by the department.
(c) The department is authorized to issue a corrective order to any person in violation of this chapter or any regulation promulgated pursuant thereto. The order shall specify the provisions of this chapter or any regulation alleged to have been violated and shall order necessary corrective action be taken within a reasonable time to be prescribed in such order.
(d) The department is authorized to revoke or suspend any license, certification, approval, or accreditation issued hereunder, in accordance with regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
(e) It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in training or lead-based paint activities regulated under this chapter except in such a manner as to conform to and comply with this chapter and all applicable regulations and orders established under this chapter.
(f) Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 214,§ 2, eff. 5/12/2011.
