# § 15-21A-6-1. Judicial operations fund fee; collection and reporting procedure

(a) In addition to all other legal costs, there shall be charged to the filing party and collected by the clerk an additional filing fee of $125.00, to be known as a judicial operations fund fee, in each civil action or case filed in a superior court except that the state, including, but not limited to, its departments, agencies, boards, bureaus, commissions, public corporations, and authorities, municipalities, counties, and political subdivisions shall be exempt from such fee. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such fee shall apply to all adoptions, petitions for review, trade name registrations, applications for change of name, and all other proceedings of a civil nature. Any matter which is docketed upon the official dockets of the superior court and to which a number is assigned shall be subject to such fee, whether such matter is contested or not; provided, however, that the judicial operations fund fee shall not apply to the issuance of certificates of appointment and reappointment of notaries public.
(b) Each superior court clerk shall collect the fees provided in this Code section and the moneys shall be paid over to the authority by the last day of the month after the month of collection, to be deposited by the authority into the general fund of the state treasury.
(c) The authority shall, on a quarterly basis, make a report and accounting of all funds collected pursuant to this Code section and shall submit such report and accounting to the Office of Planning and Budget, the House Budget and Research Office, and the Senate Budget and Evaluation Office no later than 60 days after the last day of the preceding quarter.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-13, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 15, eff. 4/29/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 7,§ 3, eff. 3/16/2011.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-44, eff. 5/12/2010.
