# § 15-21A-6-2. Exemption from judicial operations fund fee; collection and reporting procedures

(a) In addition to all other legal costs, there shall be charged to the filing party and collected by the clerk an additional filing fee of $125.00, to be known as a judicial operations fund fee, in each civil action or case filed in a state court except that the state, including, but not limited to, its departments, agencies, boards, bureaus, commissions, public corporations, and authorities, municipalities, counties, and political subdivisions shall be exempt from such fee. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such fee shall apply to any matter which is docketed upon the official dockets of the state court and to which a number is assigned, whether such matter is contested or not.
(b) Each state court clerk shall collect the fees provided in this Code section and the moneys due the authority shall be paid over to the authority by the last day of the month after the month of collection with $75.00 of these moneys paid to the authority to be deposited by the authority into the general fund of the state treasury and $50.00 of these moneys shall be retained by the local governing authority.
(c) The authority shall, on a quarterly basis, make a report and accounting of all funds collected pursuant to this Code section and shall submit such report and accounting to the Office of Planning and Budget, the House Budget and Research Office, and the Senate Budget and Evaluation Office no later than 60 days after the last day of the preceding quarter.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 15, eff. 4/29/2014.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-44, eff. 5/12/2010.
