# § 15-21A-4. Procedure for reporting and remittance of funds

(a)
  (1) Each clerk of any court or any other officer or agent of any court receiving any funds required to be remitted to the authority under this chapter on or after July 1, 2004, shall remit all such funds to the authority by the end of the month following the month in which such funds are received. Each clerk of any court or other officer or agent of any court receiving any funds required to be reported to the authority by this chapter or the rules and regulations of the authority promulgated in accordance with Code Section 15-21A-7 shall report such funds to the authority no later than 60 days after the last day of the month in which such funds are received.
  (2) The chief judge of superior court for each county shall have the authority to require compliance with this chapter and with the rules and regulations of the authority promulgated by the authority in accordance with Code Section 15-21A-7 by any clerk, officer, or agent of any court within the county. If any court is more than 60 days delinquent or is habitually delinquent in remitting any funds or reports required under this chapter or by the rules and regulations of the authority promulgated in accordance with Code Section 15-21A-7, the authority shall notify the chief judge of superior court of the county in which the court is located.
(b) The authority shall prescribe uniform procedures and forms for the reporting and remittance of all funds subject to this chapter or the rules and regulations of the authority promulgated in accordance with Code Section 15-21A-7; and all clerks or other officers or agents remitting or reporting such funds shall use the prescribed procedures and forms in reporting and remitting funds to the authority.
(c) The authority shall prescribe uniform rules, procedures, and forms relative to the partial or installment collection and remittance of funds subject to reporting or remittance to the authority under this chapter or rules and regulations promulgated by the authority in accordance with Code Section 15-21A-7. Any funds held by any court or unit of local government on July 1, 2004, consisting of previously collected partial or installment payments shall be subject to the rules, procedures, and forms so prescribed and shall be remitted to the authority to the extent provided for in such rules and procedures. Funds collected that are partial or installment payments of costs, fees, and surcharges that are required by this chapter to be remitted to the authority shall be remitted to the authority by the end of the month following the month in which they were collected; provided, however, that the authority is authorized to provide by rules and regulations for a longer period of time for remitting such funds not to exceed six months.
(d) The authority shall remit all funds collected to the designated receiving entities or general fund of the state treasury within 60 days of receiving such funds.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 739,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
