# § 15-21A-6. Additional filing fees; application fee for indigent defense services; remittance of funds

(a) In addition to all other legal costs, there shall be charged to the filing party and collected by the clerk an additional filing fee of $15.00 in each civil action or case filed in the superior, state, recorder's, mayor's, and magistrate courts except that municipalities, counties, and political subdivisions shall be exempt from such fee. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such fee shall apply to all adoptions, petitions for review, trade name registrations, applications for change of name, and all other proceedings of a civil nature. Any matter which is docketed upon the official dockets of the enumerated courts and to which a number is assigned shall be subject to such fee, whether such matter is contested or not.
(b)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term 'civil action' means:
    (A) With regard to decedents' estates, only the following petitions: petition for letters of administration; petition to probate a will in solemn form; petition for an order declaring no administration necessary; petition to probate a will in solemn form and for letters of administration with will annexed; petition to probate a will in common form; and petition for year's support;
    (B) A petition in a minor guardianship or conservatorship matter as set forth in paragraph (1) of subsection (f) of Code Section 15-9-60;
    (C) A petition in an adult guardianship or conservatorship matter as set forth in paragraph (1) of subsection (g) of Code Section 15-9-60; and
    (D) An application for writ of habeas corpus, as set forth in paragraph (30) of subsection (k) of Code Section 15-9-60.
  (2) In addition to all other legal costs, there shall be charged to the filing party and collected by the clerk an additional fee of $15.00 in each civil action filed in the probate court. For the purposes of the imposition of the civil filing fee required by this subsection, the probate court shall collect the civil filing fee on each petition listed in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of this subsection involving a decedent but once only in an adult or minor guardianship or conservatorship matter involving the same ward or an application for writ of habeas corpus involving the same applicant.
(c) Any person who applies for or receives legal defense services under Chapter 12 of Title 17 shall pay the entity providing such services a single fee of $50.00 for the application for, receipt of, or application for and receipt of such services. The application fee shall not be imposed if the payment of the fee is waived by the court. The court shall waive the fee if it finds that the applicant is unable to pay the fee or that measurable hardship will result if the fee is charged. If the application fee required by this subsection has not been paid prior to the time the defendant is sentenced, the court shall impose such fee as a condition of probation.
(d) Each clerk of court, each indigent defense program, or any other officer or agent of any court receiving any funds subject to this Code section shall collect the fees provided for in subsection (c) of this Code section and, if the governing authority has a procedure to verify the applicant's income as set forth in Code Section 17-12-80, shall pay such moneys over to the entity providing legal defense services under Chapter 12 of Title 17 by the last day of the month after the month of collection, and such funds shall not be subject to payment to the authority. If the governing authority does not have such verification procedure, the moneys shall be paid over to the authority by the last day of the month after the month of collection, to be deposited by the authority into the general fund of the state treasury.
(e) A public entity other than an entity providing legal defense services under Chapter 12 of Title 17 may charge, in addition to any other fee or surcharge authorized by law, a $50.00 application fee unless such fee is waived by the court for inability to pay or measurable hardship. If the application fee required by this subsection has not been paid prior to the time the defendant is sentenced, the court shall impose such fee as a condition of probation. Any such fee shall be retained by the entity providing such services or used as otherwise provided by law and shall not be subject to payment to the authority or deposit into the state treasury.
(f) For the purposes of this Code section, a county or municipality that provides indigent defense services or that contracts with a circuit public defender office for the provision of indigent defense services in courts other than the superior and juvenile court shall be deemed to be the entity providing the legal defense services and shall be entitled to impose and collect the application fee authorized by subsection (e) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 515,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2025, app. to fees paid in probate court on and after 1/1/2025.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-12, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-43.1, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 729,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 749,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 739,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2006.
