# § 15-14-37. Prohibition against certain contracts for court reporting services; applicability; registration; rules and regulations; fines

(a) Contracts for court reporting services not related to a particular case or reporting incident between a certified court reporter or any person with whom a certified court reporter has a principal and agency relationship and any attorney at law, party to an action, party having a financial interest in an action, or agent for an attorney at law, party to an action, or party having a financial interest in an action are prohibited. Attorneys shall not be prohibited from negotiating or bidding reasonable fees for services on a case-by-case basis.
(b) In order to comply with subsection (a) of this Code section, each certified court reporter shall make inquiry regarding the nature of the contract for his or her services directed to the employer or the person or entity engaging said court reporter's services as an independent contractor.
(c) This Code section shall not apply to contracts for court reporting services for the courts, agencies, or instrumentalities of the United States or of the State of Georgia.
(d) A court reporting firm doing business in Georgia shall register with the board by completing an application in the form adopted by the board and paying fees as required by the board.
(e) Each court reporting firm doing business in Georgia shall renew its registration annually on or before April 1 following the date of initial registration, by payment of a fee set by the board.
(f) Court reporting firms doing business in Georgia are governed by this article. The board shall have authority to promulgate rules and regulations not inconsistent with this article for the conduct of court reporting firms.
(g) The board is authorized to assess a reasonable fine, not to exceed $5,000.00, against any court reporting firm which violates any provision of this article or rules and regulations promulgated in accordance with this Code section.
