# § 15-14-7. Destruction of notes; how authorized; petition; grounds; notice; order

(a) Upon petition, the judge of a superior court, city court, or any other court, the judgments of which are subject to review by the Supreme Court or the Court of Appeals, may authorize destruction of a court reporter's notes taken of the evidence and other proceedings in civil actions in that court, subject to this Code section.
(b) The court reporter or other person in whose custody the notes are kept shall file a written petition in the court in which the trial was conducted requesting an order authorizing destruction of notes taken during the trial. The petition shall specify the name of the court reporter, the name of the person in whose custody the notes are kept if other than the court reporter, the place at which the notes are kept, and the names and addresses of the parties to the action or, if the address of a party is unknown, the name and address of counsel to that party if such is known.
(c) The petition shall certify one of the following:
  (1) That the action is a civil action in which no petition for review has been filed, that the court reporter has not been requested or ordered to transcribe the evidence and other proceedings, and that a period of not less than 37 months has elapsed since the last date upon which a petition for review in the action could have been filed; or
  (2) That the action is one in which the court reporter has been requested or ordered pursuant to law to transcribe the evidence and other proceedings, that the record has been transcribed, and that a period of not less than 12 months has elapsed from the date upon which the remittitur from the appeal has been docketed in the trial court.
(d) When a petition for the destruction of notes is filed pursuant to this Code section, the court shall cause due notice of the petition and the grounds therefor to be given to each party to the action or, if the address of a party is unknown, to the counsel to the party if such is known.
(e) Not less than 30 days after receipt of a petition pursuant to this Code section, the court shall authorize destruction of the specified notes unless such destruction, in the court's judgment, would impair the cause of justice or fairness in the action.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-11, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
