# § 33-32-1. Standard fire policy

(a) No policy of fire insurance covering property located in this state shall be made, issued, or delivered unless it conforms as to all provisions and the sequence of the standard or uniform form prescribed by the Commissioner, except that, with regard to multiple line coverage providing other kinds of insurance combined with fire insurance, this Code section shall not apply if the policy contains, with respect to the fire portion of the policy, language at least as favorable to the insured as the applicable portions of the standard fire policy and such multiple line policy has been approved by the Commissioner.
(b) The Commissioner shall file and maintain on file in his office a true copy of the standard fire policy designated as such and bearing the Commissioner's authenticating certificate and signature and the date of filing. The standard fire insurance policy shall not be required for casualty insurance, marine and transportation insurance, or insurance on growing crops. Insurers issuing the standard fire insurance policy are authorized to affix to or include in such policy a written statement that the policy does not cover loss or damage caused by nuclear reaction or nuclear radiation or radioactive contamination, whether directly or indirectly resulting from an insured peril under the policy; provided, however, that nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit the attachment to any such policy of an endorsement or endorsements specifically assuming loss or damage caused by nuclear reaction or nuclear radiation or radioactive contamination.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 476,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
