# § 32-6-1. Obstructing, encroaching on, or injuring public roads

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, encroach upon, solicit the sale of any merchandise on, or injure materially any part of any public road. For purposes of this Code section, the term "obstruct" shall include without limitation the causing of any buildup of rock, gravel, mud, dirt, chemicals, or other materials by continued ingress or egress of vehicles or of any natural waters dammed or redirected by diversion to an extent which presents a hazard to the traveling public.
(b) Any person who unlawfully obstructs, encroaches upon, or injures said public road shall be responsible for reimbursing the Department of Transportation or the applicable local governing authority in the case of a road which is part of a county road system or municipal street system for the costs of removal of said obstructions or encroachments and the costs of repairs to the public road incurred by such department or local governing authority, including any costs associated with traffic management; provided, however, that such costs shall be limited to those costs which are directly incurred from such damages. Costs incurred for traffic management may include, but not be limited to, costs incurred for flagging, signing, or provision of detours, provided that these activities are directly caused by the obstruction, encroachment, or injury to the public road system. The court may, in addition to any other sentence authorized by law, order a person convicted of violating this Code section to make such restitution for the offense.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall abridge or limit any authority provided by law for the installation and operation of vending machines at welcome centers, tourist centers, and safety rest areas. Nothing in this Code section shall limit in any way the department's authority to lease property to state or federal agencies, counties, or municipalities as provided for in Code Section 32-7-5, or limit the Department of Transportation's ability to grant a license to any utility or railroad corporation as defined in Code Section 46-1-1.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 917, § 4, eff. 7/1/2002.
