# § 32-6-80. Renewal of permits for nonconforming signs; transfer of permits for nonconforming signs

(a) After March 24, 1980, renewal of permits for nonconforming signs as defined in paragraph (12) of Code Section 32-6-71 and as authorized in subsection (e) of Code Section 32-6-79 shall be made to the department upon forms prescribed by the department; shall contain the signature of the applicant and such other information as may be required by the department's rules and regulations; and shall be verified under oath by the person, firm, or corporation making the application. Permit renewals shall be issued and shall be valid only if the sign is maintained in accordance with this part during the 12 month period next following the date of issuance. The fee for the renewal of a permit shall be $25.00. The money received from permit fees shall be used to help defray the expenses of administering this part. Upon receipt of a properly executed application and the appropriate fee for the maintenance of a sign which may be lawfully maintained pursuant to this part, the department shall, within 60 days, issue a permit renewal authorizing the maintenance of the sign for which application is made. Application for the renewal of a permit shall be made to the department not more than 90 days nor less than 60 days before the expiration date of the permit for which renewal is sought. If the department fails to receive the renewal application before the expiration date of the permit, the department will notify the applicant that the renewal application is overdue when the applicant's address is known or reasonably available to the department and shall give the applicant 30 days after the expiration date to send the department the renewal application. If the applicant does not send the properly executed application and the appropriate fee within the specified 30 day period, the sign shall then become an illegal sign. No permit shall be renewed if the application for the renewal thereof has not been made in accordance with this Code section.
(b) Permits shall be transferable. An application to have the permit transferred shall be made within 30 days of the change in ownership of the sign; shall be made to the department upon forms prescribed by the department; shall contain the signature of the applicant and such other information as may be required by the department; and shall be verified under oath by the person, firm, or corporation making application for transfer. Failure to comply in a timely and proper manner with this subsection shall be grounds for revocation of the permit.
