# § 32-6-74. Applications for outdoor advertising sign permits generally; fees; renewals; transfer of permits

(a) Applications for permits authorized by subsections (a) through (d) of Code Section 32-6-79 shall be made to the department upon forms prescribed by the department. The applications shall contain the signature of the applicant and such other information as may be required by the department and shall be verified under oath by the person, firm, or corporation making the application. Permits and renewals thereof shall be issued for and shall be valid only if the sign is erected and maintained in accordance with this part during the 12 month period next following the date of issuance. As to permits for the initial erection of an outdoor advertising sign, one 12 month extension may be granted so long as a written request is submitted to the department at least 30 days prior to expiration along with a fee of $35.00. Any denial of an extension request shall be sent to the applicant before the expiration date and shall state the basis for denial. Multiple extensions shall not be granted as to the same permit, and the applicant shall not be allowed to reapply for the same site until the extension has expired; however, modifications to the application which do not extend the term of the permit shall be allowed. There shall be an initial outdoor advertising permit fee and an annual renewal fee. On and after July 1, 2011, the outdoor advertising application fee shall be $300.00, and the renewal fee for each sign shall be $85.00. The department may adjust future application and renewal fees through the formal rule making process so long as notice of any proposed increase is sent to the House and Senate Transportation Committees at least 30 days prior to final adoption by the department. Such fees shall be limited to amounts sufficient to offset the administrative costs to the department. An annual report on the expenditures and revenues of the department related to the outdoor advertising program shall be sent to the House and Senate Transportation Committees no later than October 31 of each year. Upon receipt of a properly executed application and the appropriate fee for the erection or maintenance of a sign which may be lawfully erected or maintained pursuant to this part, the department shall, within 60 days, issue a permit authorizing the erection or maintenance, or both, of the sign for which application was made except when a person, firm, or corporation is maintaining or allowing the maintenance of an illegal sign as provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 32-6-79. All outdoor advertising permits and renewals shall expire on the first day of April in the year following issuance. Renewal of such permits shall be made to the department between January 1 and April 1 of each calendar year. Notice of such renewal period shall be mailed to each outdoor advertising permit holder along with an itemized list of all permits maintained by such person or entity in the month of December. In response, each permit holder should clearly indicate any permits not being renewed and return a copy to the department along with payment for all permits being renewed. If a permit holder believes the itemized list is incomplete or inaccurate, such permit holder shall clearly note such discrepancies on the list and return a copy to the department with supporting documentation. The permit holder shall submit the renewal and any suggested corrections within 60 days of the date of the department notice or by April 1, whichever occurs last. If the department fails to receive the renewal before the expiration date, the department shall notify the permit holder by certified mail that the renewal is overdue and shall give the permit holder 45 days from the date of the postmark on such notice to send the department the renewal. If the applicant does not send the permit renewal and fee within 45 days after the postmark date on such notice, the permit shall expire and the sign shall then become an illegal sign. Signs shall become illegal by operation of law after the expiration of the permit followed by notice to the permit holder and a failure to submit for the renewal within 45 days. Any illegal sign may be removed without any administrative proceeding before the department. Vegetation permits or renewals issued pursuant to Code Section 32-6-75.3 shall expire on the first day of September in the year following issuance. If a vegetation permit renewal application and fee is not timely submitted and such deficiency is not cured within 45 days of the postmark date of notice via certified mail from the department, the vegetation permit shall be canceled, but the sign shall not be deemed illegal. No permit shall be renewed if the renewal thereof has not been made in accordance with this Code section.
(b) Permits shall be transferable. An application to have the permit specified in subsection (a) of this Code section transferred shall be made within 30 days of the change in ownership of the sign; shall be made to the department upon forms prescribed by the department; shall contain the signature of the applicant and such other information as may be required by the department; and shall be verified under oath by the person, firm, or corporation making application for transfer. Failure to comply in a timely and proper manner with this subsection shall be grounds for revocation of the permit.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 197,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
