# § 32-6-87.1. "RV friendly" markers

(a) Subject to the prior approval of the Federal Highway Administration, the department is directed to incorporate the use of "RV friendly" markers on specific service signs for business establishments that cater to the needs of persons driving recreational vehicles. A business establishment that qualifies for participation in the specific service sign program and that also qualifies as "RV friendly" may request that an "RV friendly" marker be displayed immediately adjacent to such establishment's business logo sign on the appropriate background sign panel. For purposes of this Code section, the "RV friendly" marker to be displayed shall be such marker as may be approved by the Federal Highway Administration in the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
(b) In accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and subject to the approval of the Federal Highway Administration, the department shall promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to implement the provisions of this Code section, including the promulgation of rules and regulations setting forth the minimum requirements that business establishments must meet in order to qualify as "RV friendly." Such requirements shall include, but shall not be limited to, the availability at each qualifying business establishment of parking spaces, entrances and exits in sufficient number and of sufficient size and dimensions to easily accommodate recreational vehicles, and the presence of appropriate overhang clearances at all facilities, if applicable.
(c) For the purposes of assisting the Federal Highway Administration in considering the approval of an "RV friendly" marker for incorporation into the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices, the department is directed to submit a request to the Federal Highway Administration for permission to experiment with the use of an "RV friendly" marker on specific service signs in accordance with this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 471,§ 32, eff. 5/12/2008.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 17,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2007.
