# § 32-6-5. Closure of or limiting access to roads due to declared state of emergency for inclement weather conditions; exception for certain vehicle operators

(a) The department may close or limit access to any portion of road on the state highway system due to a declared state of emergency for inclement weather conditions that results in dangerous driving conditions. There shall be erected or posted signage of adequate size indicating that a portion of the state highway system has been closed or access has been limited. When the department determines a road shall have limited access due to a declared state of emergency for inclement winter weather conditions, notice shall be given to motorists through posted signage that motor vehicles must be equipped with tire chains, four-wheel drive with adequate tires for existing conditions, or snow tires with a manufacturer's all weather rating in order to proceed. Such signage shall inform motorists that it shall be unlawful to proceed on such road without such equipment. With the exception of buses, operators of commercial motor vehicles as defined by Code Section 40-1-1 with four or more drive wheels traveling on a road declared as limited access due to a declared state of emergency for inclement winter weather conditions shall affix tire chains to each of the outermost drive wheel tires. Bus and motor coach operators shall affix tire chains to at least two of the drive wheel tires before proceeding on a road with limited access due to a declared state of emergency for inclement winter weather conditions. For purposes of this Code section, the term "tire chains" means metal chains which consist of two circular metal loops, positioned on each side of a tire, connected by not less than nine evenly spaced chains across the tire tread or any other traction devices as provided for by rules and regulations of the commissioner of public safety.
(b) A driver of a motor vehicle who causes an accident or blocks the flow of traffic while failing to comply with the requirements of subsection (a) of this Code section when access is limited on the state highway system due to a declared state of emergency for inclement weather conditions shall be fined up to $1,000.00.
(c) This Code section shall not apply to a tow operator towing a motor vehicle or traveling to a site from which a motor vehicle shall be towed or to emergency responders traveling the roadway in order to fulfill their duties.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 638,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 773,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2012.
