# § 32-6-240. Definitions

(1) "Automobile graveyard" means any establishment which is maintained or used for storing, buying, or selling wrecked, scrapped, ruined, or dismantled motor vehicles or motor vehicle parts.
(2) "Junk" means old or scrap copper, brass, rope, rags, batteries, paper, trash, rubber, debris, or waste; junked, dismantled, or wrecked automobiles, or parts thereof; or iron, steel, and other old scrap ferrous or nonferrous material.
(3) "Junkyard" means any establishment which is maintained or used for storing, buying, or selling junk or for an automobile graveyard; and the term shall include garbage dumps, sanitary fills, and scrap processor establishments.
(4) "Primary system" or "primary highway" means the federal-aid primary system in existence on June 1, 1991, and any highway which is not on such system, but which is on the National Highway System, as officially designated or as may hereafter be so designated by the department and approved by the United States Secretary of Transportation pursuant to the provisions of Title 23, Section 103, United States Code.
(5) "Scrap processor" means any person, firm, or corporation engaged only in the business of buying scrap iron and metals, including but not limited to old automobiles, for the specific purpose of processing into raw material for remelting purposes only, and whose principal product is ferrous and nonferrous scrap for shipment to steel mills, foundries, smelters, and refineries, and who maintains an established place of business in this state and has facilities and machinery designed for such processing.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 115,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2005.
