# § 43-11-20. Training and affiliated sites; clinics; licensure examination

(a) Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit accredited dental colleges or advanced dental education programs from maintaining on-campus training clinics and affiliated sites for the purpose of educational training of dental students or dental residents approved by the board under the supervision of licensed dentists or instructors; nor shall this chapter prevent licensed dental practitioners of other states and countries from giving clinics before any dental society or association of this state whose objects are the advancement and improvement of dentistry as a science.
(b) Nothing in this chapter shall prevent students of accredited dental colleges or residents in advanced dental education programs in this state from engaging in activities otherwise defined as the practice of dentistry, provided that said students work under the direct supervision and responsibility of a licensed dentist or instructor as a part of a training clinic; nor shall this chapter prevent students of accredited dental hygiene schools in this state from engaging in activities otherwise defined as the practice of dental hygiene, provided that said students work under the direct supervision and responsibility of a licensed dentist or dental hygienist as a part of an on-campus training clinic or at affiliated sites approved by said schools, colleges, or programs and the board for the purpose of educational training. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent said schools or colleges of dentistry or dental hygiene or advanced dental education programs from establishing and collecting charges for services rendered by training students or residents under the supervision of a licensed dentist, licensed dental hygienist, or instructor. These charges shall not exceed charges made by similar dental schools and colleges and advanced dental education programs located within the United States.
(c) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the administration of a board approved clinical licensure examination as a prerequisite for licensure as a dentist or dental hygienist in this state. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the conducting of a Georgia clinical licensure examination by a board approved examiner who is licensed as a dentist or dental hygienist in another jurisdiction. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the taking of a Georgia clinical licensure examination by an individual who is eligible to apply for licensure as a dentist or dental hygienist in this state.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 550,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
