# § 43-11-11. Gathering of census data on practicing dentists and dental hygienists; standard form

(a) The board shall gather census data on each dentist and dental hygienist in this state. Such census data shall be obtained from each dentist and dental hygienist as part of the license renewal process on a biennial basis. Renewal of a license shall be contingent on completion and provision of a census questionnaire to the board. Failure by a licensee to submit the census questionnaire shall authorize the board to refuse to grant a license renewal, revoke a license, or discipline a licensee under Code Section 43-11-47.
(b) The board shall by regulation establish a standard form for the collection of census data. Such form and the census data obtained shall be available for dissemination to any member of the public.
(c) The standard form shall at a minimum request the following information from dentists renewing their license:
  (1) The dentist's age and gender;
  (2) Each location identified by ZIP Code in which the dentist operates a private dental practice or practices dentistry;
  (3) Whether the dentist is a specialist and the specialty in which the dentist is engaged; and
  (4) Whether the dentist practices dentistry full time, which shall mean 30 or more hours per week, or part time, which shall mean less than 30 hours per week.
(d) The standard form shall at a minimum request the following information from dental hygienists renewing their license:
  (1) The dental hygienist's age and gender;
  (2) Each location identified by ZIP Code in which the dental hygienist provides treatment services; and
  (3) Whether the dental hygienist provides treatment full time, which shall mean 30 or more hours per week, or part time, which shall mean less than 30 hours per week.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 83,§ 2-7, eff. 7/1/2013.
