# § 43-11-52. Volunteers in dentistry and dental hygiene; special licensing; construction

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "Georgia Volunteers in Dentistry and Dental Hygiene Act."
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the board shall issue a special license to qualifying dentists and dental hygienists under the terms and conditions set forth in this Code section and pursuant to requirements which may be set forth in the rules and regulations of the board. The special license shall only be issued to a person who:
  (1) Is retired from the practice of dentistry or dental hygiene and not currently engaged in such practice either full time or part time and has, prior to retirement, maintained full unrestricted licensure in good standing in dentistry or dental hygiene in any state; or
  (2) Is currently licensed to practice dentistry or dental hygiene in any licensing jurisdiction in the United States and whose license is unrestricted and in good standing. As used in this subsection, the term "unrestricted" means that no restrictions have been placed on the applicant's license by any board, no sanctions or disciplinary actions have been imposed by any board on the applicant, and the applicant is not under probation or suspension by any board.
(c) The special licensee shall be permitted to practice dentistry or dental hygiene only in the noncompensated employ of public agencies or institutions, not for profit agencies, not for profit institutions, nonprofit corporations, or not for profit associations which provide dentistry or dental hygiene services only to indigent patients in areas which are underserved by dentists or dental hygienists or critical need population areas of the state, as determined by the board, or pursuant to Article 8 of Chapter 8 of Title 31. The practice of dental hygiene by a dental hygienist awarded a special license under this Code section shall be governed by Code Section 43-11-74.
(d) The person applying for the special license under this Code section shall submit to the board a notarized statement from the employing agency, institution, corporation, association, or health care program on a form prescribed by the board, whereby he or she agrees unequivocally not to receive compensation for any dentistry or dental hygiene services he or she may render while in possession of the special license.
(e) The examination by the board, any application fees, and all licensure and renewal fees may be waived for the holder of the special license under this Code section.
(f) If, at the time application is made for the special license, the dentist or dental hygienist is not in compliance with the continuing education requirements established by the board for dentists or dental hygienists in this state, the dentist or dental hygienist may be issued a nonrenewable temporary license to practice for six months provided the applicant is otherwise qualified for such license.
(g)
  (1) Except as provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the liability of persons practicing dentistry or dental hygiene under and in compliance with a special license issued under this Code section and the liability of their employers for such practice shall be governed by Code Section 51-1-29.1.
  (2) The liability of persons practicing dentistry or dental hygiene pursuant to Article 8 of Chapter 8 of Title 31 under and in compliance with a special license issued under this Code section shall be governed by the provisions of such article.
(h) This Code section, being in derogation of the common law, shall be strictly construed.
(i) Application for a license under this Code section shall constitute consent for performance of a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including but not limited to classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of a background check.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 737,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 503,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 414,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 573, § 8, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended, to eliminate the future repeal, by 2002 Ga. Laws 780, § 1, eff. 5/9/2002.
Repealed by 2001 Ga. Laws 188, § 1, eff 7/1/2004.
See 2001 Ga. Laws 188, § 2.
