# § 43-11-41. Application for provisional license to practice dentistry by credentials; procedure; criminal background check; expiration and revocation of license

(a)
  (1) Applicants for a provisional license to practice dentistry by credentials must have received a doctor of dental surgery (D.D.S.) degree or a doctor of dental medicine (D.M.D.) degree from a dental school approved by the board and accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association (ADA) or its successor agency, if any. Applicants must have been in full-time clinical practice, as defined by rules and regulations established by the board; full-time faculty, as defined by board rule and regulation; or a combination of both for the five years immediately preceding the date of the application and must hold an active dental license in good standing from another state. Those applicants who have received a doctoral degree in dentistry from a dental school not so accredited must comply with the following requirements in order to submit an application for provisional licensure by credentials:
    (A) Successful completion at an accredited dental school approved by the board of the last two years of a pre-doctoral program and receipt of the doctor of dental surgery (D.D.S.) or doctor of dental medicine (D.M.D.) degree; and
    (B) Certification by the dean of the accredited dental school where such supplementary program was taken that the candidate has achieved the same level of didactic and clinical competency as expected of a graduate of the school.
  (2) The board may establish by rule or regulation the requirements for documentation of an applicant's educational and personal qualifications for provisional licensure.
  (3) In order to be granted a provisional license under this Code section, all applicants must have passed a clinical examination given by a state or regional testing agency approved by the board and a jurisprudence examination on the laws of this state and rules and regulations as they relate to the practice of dentistry as established or approved by the board, which shall be administered in the English language.
  (4) The board may establish additional licensure requirements by rule and regulation.
(b) All applications to the board for a provisional license by credentials shall be made through the executive director, who shall then submit all such applications to the board. The fee for provisional licensure by credentials shall be paid to the executive director and shall be in an amount established by the board.
(c) Subject to the provisions of subsection (a) of Code Section 43-11-47, an applicant who has met the requirements of this Code section shall be granted a provisional license to practice dentistry, which shall be valid for two years from the date it is issued and may be renewed subject to the approval of the board.
(d) Application for a provisional license under this Code section shall constitute consent for performance of a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for provisional licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including but not limited to classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of a background check.
(e) Upon receipt of license, the applicant by credentials must establish active practice, as defined by rules and regulations of the board, in this state within two years of receiving such license under this Code section or the license shall be automatically revoked.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 83,§ 2-11, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 43, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 573, § 5, eff. 7/1/2004.
Former § 43-11-41 was repealed.
