# § 43-11-1. Definitions

(1) "Accredited dental college" and "accredited dental school" or "accredited school of dentistry" means a dental school, college, or university with an education program accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association or its successor agency.
(2) "Accredited dental hygiene school" means a dental hygiene education program accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association or its successor agency.
(3) "Advanced dental education program" means an accredited dental advanced specialty education program or accredited dental education program accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association or its successor agency.
(4) "Board" means the Georgia Board of Dentistry.
(5) "Conscious sedation" means a minimally depressed level of consciousness that retains the patient's ability to independently and continuously maintain an airway and respond appropriately to physical stimulation or verbal command and that is produced by a pharmacological or nonpharmacological method or combination thereof. A patient whose only response is reflex withdrawal from repeated painful stimuli shall not be considered to be in a state of conscious sedation. The use of nitrous oxide is not considered conscious sedation for purposes of this chapter.
(6) "Dentistry" means the evaluation, diagnosis, prevention, or treatment, or any combination thereof, whether using surgical or nonsurgical procedures, of diseases, disorders, or conditions, or any combination thereof, of the oral cavity, maxillofacial area, or the adjacent and associated structures, or any combination thereof, and their impact on the human body provided by a dentist, within the scope of his or her education, training, and experience, in accordance with the ethics of the profession and applicable law, including, but not limited to, the acts specified in Code Section 43-11-17.
(6.1) "Executive director" means the executive director appointed by the board pursuant to Code Section 43-11-2.1.
(7) "General anesthesia" means an induced state of depressed consciousness, or an induced state of unconsciousness, accompanied by partial or complete loss of protective reflexes, including the inability to continually and independently maintain an airway and respond purposefully to physical stimulation or verbal command, and produced by a pharmacological or nonpharmacological method or combination thereof. For purposes of this chapter, "general anesthesia" includes deep sedation.
(8) "Instructor" means either a dentist or a dental hygienist whom the board has granted a teacher's or instructor's license pursuant to Code Section 43-11-42.
(9) "Licensed dental hygienist" means a dental hygienist licensed and in good standing in this state pursuant to this chapter.
(10) "Licensed dentist" means a dentist licensed and in good standing in this state pursuant to this chapter.
(11) "Training clinic" means a clinic operated as a nonprofit facility by an accredited dental college, advanced dental education program, or accredited dental hygiene school primarily to train students or residents of such college, program, or school.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 43, eff. 4/29/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 83,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 550,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 573, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
