# § 43-11-42. Reciprocity; criminal background check

(a) The board may issue, in its discretion, without examination, a teacher's or instructor's license to a dental hygienist who has graduated from a school or college approved by the board and accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association (ADA) or its successor agency, if any, for the sole purpose of teaching or instructing, in an accredited dental hygiene school in this state, those procedures and services recognized in this state to be within the scope of practice of such person's professional license.
(a.1)
  (1) The board may issue, in its discretion, without examination, a teacher's or instructor's license to a dentist who has graduated from a school, college, or advanced dental education program approved by the board and accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association (ADA) or its successor agency, if any, for the sole purpose of teaching or instructing, in an accredited dental college, advanced dental education program, or training clinic in this state, those procedures and services recognized in this state to be within the scope of practice of such person's professional license. Those applicants who have received a doctoral degree in dentistry from a dental school not so accredited must comply with the following requirements in order to submit an application for licensure:
    (A)
      (i) Successful completion at an accredited dental school approved by the board of the last two years of a program leading to the doctor of dental surgery (D.D.S.) or doctor of dental medicine (D.M.D.) degree; or
      (ii) Successful completion at an accredited dental school or college approved by the board of at least a two-year advanced education program in one of the dental specialties recognized by the American Dental Association (ADA) or in an advanced dental education program in general dentistry; or
      (iii) Successful completion of at least two one-year advanced dental education programs in general dentistry at an accredited dental school or college approved by the board; or
      (iv) Successful completion of a one-year program in operative dentistry at a dental school or college approved by the board and a one-year advanced dental education program in general dentistry at an accredited dental school or college approved by the board; and
    (B) Certification by the dean of the accredited dental school where such supplementary program was taken that the candidate has achieved the same level of didactic and clinical competency as expected of a graduate of the school receiving a doctor of dental surgery (D.D.S.) or doctor of dental medicine (D.M.D.) degree.
  (2) The board may establish by rule or regulation the requirements for documentation of an applicant's educational and personal qualifications for licensure.
  (3) In order to be granted a license under this subsection, all applicants must pass a jurisprudence examination on the laws of this state and rules and regulations as they relate to the practice of dentistry as established or approved by the board, which shall be administered in the English language.
(b) The board may issue, in its discretion, without examination, a license to dentists for the sole purpose of practicing public health dentistry in an official state or a local health department or to render dental services to patients in state operated eleemosynary or correctional institutions, provided that these dentists possess a license in another state, are in good standing in said state, and have graduated from an accredited dental college. Such license shall be considered to be a temporary license which shall be valid for a period to be established by board rule.
(c) The cost of such teacher's, instructor's, or temporary public health license shall be established by the board.
(d) Any license issued or considered for issuance under this Code section shall be subject to the provisions set forth in Code Section 43-11-47.
(e) Application for a license under this Code section shall constitute consent for performance of a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including but not limited to classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of a background check.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 550,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 573, § 6, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 43, eff. 4/18/2002.
