# § 43-11-71.1. Application for license to practice dental hygiene by credentials; procedure; criminal background check; expiration of license

(a)
  (1) Applicants for a license to practice dental hygiene by credentials must have received a dental hygiene degree from a dental hygiene school or program accredited by the Commission on Dental Accreditation of the American Dental Association (ADA) or its successor agency, if any, and approved by the board. Applicants must also provide proof of full-time clinical practice, as defined by the board; full-time faculty practice, as defined by the board; or a combination of both for the last two preceding years and hold an active dental hygiene license in good standing from another state.
  (2) The board may establish by rule or regulation the requirements for documentation of an applicant's educational and personal qualifications for licensure.
  (3) In order to be granted a license under this Code section, all applicants must have passed a clinical examination given by a state or regional testing agency approved by the board and a jurisprudence examination on the laws of this state and rules and regulations as they relate to the practice of dental hygiene as established or approved by the board, which shall be administered in the English language.
  (4) The board may establish additional licensure requirements by rule and regulation.
(b) All applications to the board for a license by credentials shall be made through the executive director, who shall then submit all such applications to the board. The fee for licensure by credentials shall be paid to the executive director and shall be in an amount established by the board.
(c) Subject to the provisions of Code Section 43-11-72, an applicant who has met the requirements of this Code section shall be granted a license to practice as a dental hygienist.
(d) Application for a license under this Code section shall constitute consent for performance of a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including but not limited to classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of a background check.
(e) Upon receipt of license, the applicant by credentials must establish active practice, as defined by rules and regulations of the board, in this state within two years of receiving such license under this Code section or the license shall be automatically revoked.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 83,§ 2-17, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 43, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 573, § 11, eff. 7/1/2004.
