# § 43-11-46.1. Continuing education requirements; waiver

(a) The board shall be authorized to require persons seeking renewal of a dental license under this chapter to complete board approved continuing education of not less than 40 hours biennially. The board shall be authorized to approve courses offered by institutions of higher learning, specialty societies, or professional organizations and to designate the number of hours required and the category in which those hours should be earned.
(b) The board shall be authorized to waive the continuing education requirement in cases of hardship, disability, or illness or under such other circumstances as the board deems appropriate.
(c) The board shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to implement and ensure compliance with the requirements of this Code section.
(d) This Code section shall apply to each licensing, certification, and renewal cycle which begins after the 1990-1991 renewal.
(e) On and after January 1, 2022, continuing education requirements for dentists shall include legal ethics and professionalism in the practice of dentistry, which shall include, but shall not be limited to, education and training regarding professional boundaries; unprofessional conduct relating to the commission of acts of sexual intimacy, abuse, misconduct, or exploitation with regard to the practice of dentistry; legislative updates and changes to the laws relating to the practice of dentistry and rules, policies, and advisory opinions and rulings issued by the board; professional conduct and ethics; proper billing practices; professional liability; and risk management.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 291,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
