# § 43-11-2. Georgia Board of Dentistry; members; qualifications; terms; voting; powers

(a) A board to be known as the Georgia Board of Dentistry is created. The board shall consist of 17 members to be appointed and commissioned by the Governor as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b)
  (1) Thirteen members of the board shall be dentists and shall be appointed as follows: The members of the board who are dentists serving on July 1, 1981, shall continue to serve out their respective terms of office. As each such member's term of office subsequently expires, the Governor shall appoint a new member who shall be a practicing dentist licensed by this state. The Georgia Dental Association may, at each annual meeting, nominate four reputable practicing dentists for each expired or next expiring board member's term; and, from each group of four dentists so nominated, the Governor may appoint one as the new member of said board.
  (2) Two members of the board shall be dental hygienists who are not dentists, who are residents of this state, and who are practicing dental hygienists in this state and shall be appointed by the Governor. No one shall be eligible as a dental hygienist member of the board unless he or she is a citizen of this state and has lawfully practiced as a dental hygienist for five or more years at the time of his or her appointment and is not financially interested in, nor connected with, any dental college or dental hygiene school. If such a member ceases to be a resident of this state or ceases practicing in this state, that position on the board shall be deemed vacated. The Georgia Dental Hygienists Association may nominate four reputable dental hygienists who are not dentists for each expired or expiring term; and, from each group of four dental hygienists so nominated, the Governor may appoint one as the new member of the board.
  (3) One member of the board shall be a citizen of this state who is not a dentist or a dental hygienist and shall be appointed by the Governor.
  (4) One member of the board shall be a resident of this state who has direct knowledge of the education of dental students in this state and shall be appointed by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia.
  (5) The term of office of each member of the board shall be for five years and until the appointment and qualification of a successor.
  (6) Each vacancy on the board shall be filled by the Governor for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment.
(c) No one shall be eligible as a dentist member of the board unless he or she is a citizen of this state and has lawfully engaged in the practice of dentistry for five or more years at the time of his or her appointment and is not financially interested in, nor connected with, any dental college.
(d)
  (1) The dental hygienist members of the board may vote only on matters relating to dental hygiene, administration, and policy which do not directly relate to practical or scientific examination of dentists for licensing in this state.
  (2) The citizen member of the board appointed pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of this Code section may vote only on matters relating to administration and policy which do not directly relate to practical and scientific examination of dentists and dental hygienists for licensing in this state.
(e) The board may bring an action to enjoin any person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity who without being licensed or registered to do so by the board engages in or practices the profession of dentistry. The proceeding shall be filed in the county in which such person resides or, in the case of a firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity where the firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity maintains its principal office. Unless it shall be made to appear that such person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity so engaging in or practicing dentistry is licensed or registered, the injunction shall be issued, and such person, firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity shall be perpetually enjoined from such activities throughout the state. It shall not be necessary in order to obtain the equitable relief provided in this subsection that the board allege and prove that there is no adequate remedy at law. It is declared that such unlicensed activities as are mentioned in this chapter are a menace and a nuisance dangerous to the public health, safety, and welfare.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 840,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
