# § 43-11-23. Specialized training for dental assistant or hygienist performing certain procedures

(a) A dental assistant or licensed dental hygienist performing phlebotomy and venipuncture procedures shall be required to complete board approved training in phlebotomy, intravenous access, infection control, the handling of any medical or dental emergencies associated with such procedures, and any other safety related topics required by the board.
(b) A dental assistant or licensed dental hygienist assisting a licensed dentist during the lawful administration of conscious sedation under Code Section 43-11-21 or general anesthesia under Code Section 43-11-21.1 shall complete board approved training on the applicable procedures, protocols, patient monitoring techniques, equipment, and any other safety related topics required by the board. A dental assistant or licensed dental hygienist performing phlebotomy and venipuncture procedures while assisting the supervising dentist pursuant to this subsection shall also complete the training requirements contained in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) The procedures authorized in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section shall only be performed under the direct supervision of a licensed dentist.
(d) A licensed dentist shall not delegate to a dental assistant or a dental hygienist the administration of any medication or drugs given to a patient through phlebotomy and venipuncture procedures.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 288,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
