# § 36-82-188. Employment test

(a) In order to qualify for a notice of allocation from the economic development share, a project must satisfy the employment tests as defined in this Code section. To satisfy the employment tests, a project must either:
  (1) Be reasonably expected to increase employment within the territorial area of operation of the issuer by not less than one job for each $125,000.00 or part thereof in bond financing. This requirement shall be known as the increased employment test; or
  (2) Be reasonably expected to retain within the territorial area of operation of the issuer not less than one job for each $125,000.00 or part thereof in bond financing. This requirement shall be known as the retained employment test.
(b) The increased employment test shall be satisfied if a borrower reasonably expects that the required additional jobs will be available not later than two years after completion of the project and certifies to this effect in writing. The retained employment test shall be satisfied if the borrower certifies in writing, addressed to the department, that, except for the issuance of the bonds which are the subject of the application, such borrower or other entity which operates the project reasonably expects that it would, within two years after the date of the application, either cease operation at the site of the project, thereby reducing employment by not less than the required number, or reduce employment by not less than the required number without ceasing operation.
(c) A job shall mean, for purposes of either employment test, a position held by a full-time, paid employee with no agreement or arrangement which would limit the duration of such employment. Such an employee either must spend substantially all of his time on the job performing the duties of his job at the location of the project or must be based at the project and spend substantially all of his time on the job performing the duties of his job within the territorial area of operation of the issuer.
