# § 36-82-100. Expenditure of bond proceeds; auditing

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "bonds" means any revenue or general obligation bonds issued under this chapter.
(b) When bonds are issued by a county, municipality, or local authority in the amount of $5 million or more, the expenditure of bond proceeds shall be subject to an ongoing performance audit or performance review as provided in this Code section; but this Code section shall not apply if such bond issue is below $5 million.
(c) Each county, municipality, or local authority expending bond proceeds shall provide for a continuing performance audit or performance review of the expenditure of such funds. The county, municipality, or local authority shall contract with a certified public accountant or with an outside auditor, consultant, or other provider accredited or certified in the field of performance audits or performance reviews. Such accountant, auditor, consultant, or other provider shall only be qualified to perform the audit and review functions under this Code section if such accountant, auditor, consultant, or other provider has significant experience and competence in conducting comprehensive audits and reviews in conformance with generally accepted government auditing standards. The performance audit or performance review contract shall:
  (1) Include a goal of ensuring to the maximum extent possible that the bond funds are expended efficiently and economically, so as to secure to the county, municipality, or local authority the maximum possible benefit from the bond funds;
  (2) Provide for the issuance of periodic public reports, made accessible through electronic or printed format, or both, at a location advertised in the legal organ not less often than once annually, with respect to the extent to which expenditures are meeting the goal specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection; and
  (3) Provide for the issuance of periodic public recommendations, made accessible through electronic or printed format, or both, at a location advertised in the legal organ not less often than once annually, for improvements in meeting the goal specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(d) The auditor, consultant, or other provider to carry out the performance audit or performance review shall be selected through a public request for proposals process. The reasonable cost of the performance audit or performance review shall be paid from the proceeds of the bonds unless a specific waiver of public accountability is included in a legal advertisement in bold print contained within requisite public notice soliciting public preapproval of the applicable bond issue which expressly states that no performance audit or performance review shall be conducted with respect to such bond issue.
(e) On and after May 5, 2006, the expenditure of bond proceeds shall be under the jurisdiction of and subject to review by the inspector general of this state with respect to any claim of fraud, waste, abuse, or mismanagement of funds.
(f) This Code section shall apply with respect to any bonds which are subject to the requirements of subsection (b) of this Code section which are issued after May 5, 2006, until the proceeds of such bond issue have been expended.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 923,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2006.
