# § 36-82-10. Reporting requirements

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "political subdivision" means any municipality, county, local government authority, board, or commission empowered to enter into debt. Such term shall not include any state agency or state authority.
(b) A political subdivision which issues general obligation bonds, revenue bonds, or any other bonds, notes, certificates of participation, or other such obligations of that political subdivision in an amount exceeding $1 million shall file a report with the Department of Community Affairs which contains the following:
  (1) Name of issuer;
  (2) Whether the issue is a new issue or a refinancing or refunding;
  (3) Total amount issued;
  (4) Term of issue;
  (5) Detailed description of purpose or purposes;
  (5.1) Whether the issue is a general obligation bond, revenue bond, or other bond, note, certificate of participation, or other obligation;
  (6) Name of underwriter;
  (7) Proceeds used for bond issuance costs, including underwriters' discount as reported on Line 24 of the United States Department of Treasury's Internal Revenue Service Form 8038-G;
  (8) Name of bond counsel;
  (9) Interest rate; and
  (10) True or net interest costs. Such information shall be reported to the Department of Community Affairs in accordance with Code Section 36-81-8.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 36, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 923,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2006.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 315, § 1, eff. 4/27/2001.
