# § 36-82-190. Reservations from housing share

(a) Commencing on April 1, 1990, and extending through June 30, 1990, and for 1991 and each year thereafter commencing on January 1 and extending through September 30, reservations from the housing share shall be as follows:
  (1) Sixty-two percent shall be reserved for the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority for any qualified housing project. This shall be known as the state housing reservation;
  (2) Nineteen percent shall be reserved for urban residential finance authorities for any qualified housing project. This shall be known as the urban housing reservation; and
  (3) Nineteen percent shall be reserved for local housing authorities for any qualified housing projects. This shall be known as the local housing reservation. The local housing reservation shall be available for notices of allocation on a first-come, first-served basis. If applications exceed the amount available, the department shall apply the policy guidelines provided in Code Section 36-82-195.
(b) Any allocations made in 1990 prior to April 1, 1990, shall be subtracted from the total sum which would be available to an issuer based upon which reservation the issuer qualified for and based upon the percentage formula provided in this Code section.
(c) On July 1, 1990, and October 1, 1991, and October 1 in each year thereafter, the housing share shall expire and any unused amounts remaining in the housing share and any amounts for which the notice of allocation ceases to be in effect shall automatically be added to the flexible share.
(d) If at any time amounts of the state housing reservation or the urban housing reservation remain available for allocation, the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority or the urban residential finance authorities may, upon written notification to the department, transfer any available reservation, or any part thereof, to the state housing reservation, urban housing reservation, or the local housing reservation, if the issuer making the transfer anticipates that such amounts are more likely to be used in the reservation to which the transfer is made.
