# § 36-82-192. Requirements for applications for qualified residential rental projects; periods for notices of allocation; expiration dates for notices; confirmation of issuance required

(a) Applications for qualified residential rental projects shall be accompanied by the following:
  (1) The items specified in Code Section 36-82-185;
  (2) A written opinion of legal counsel addressed to the department to the effect that the bonds which are covered by the application will, based upon the information available at that time to such legal counsel, qualify as exempt facility bonds for the financing of a qualified residential rental project when issued;
  (3) A written statement of the issuer, addressed to the department, to the effect that the bonds which are covered by the application will, based upon the information available at that time to such issuer, comply with local zoning laws, statutes, ordinances, and resolutions; and
  (4) If the project is expected to be issued in combination with a HoDAG, a copy of the application submitted to the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development for a housing development action grant.
(b) If the amount of bonds covered by applications received does not exceed the amount of the local housing reservation, the department shall give its notice of allocation, approving the allocation requested by each application within 15 days after the filing date.
(c) If the amount of bonds covered by applications received on or before the filing date exceeds the amount of the local housing reservation, the department shall determine allocations by applying the policy guidelines. The department shall give its notices of allocation with respect to those applications which it selects not later than 30 days after the filing date. The decision of the department shall be final and conclusive.
(d) The department shall not be required to give notices of allocation from the local housing reservation for any qualified residential rental housing project in an aggregate principal amount of more than 25 percent of the amount of the local housing reservation.
(e) The provisions of subsections (d), (e), and (g) of Code Section 36-82-187 with respect to notices of allocation from the economic development share shall also apply to notices of allocation from the local housing reservation.
(f)
  (1) The expiration date for a notice of allocation for a qualified residential rental project from the local housing reservation, other than one expected to be issued in combination with a HoDAG, shall be the first business day which occurs on or after the seventy-fifth day after the date on which the notice of allocation is given.
  (2) The expiration date for a notice of allocation expected to be issued in combination with a HoDAG may, in the department's discretion, be the first business day which occurs on or after the one hundred-eightieth day after the date on which the notice of allocation is given. The department shall not, however, have any obligation to provide an expiration date in excess of 75 days, and no issuer shall have any right to an expiration date in excess of 75 days.
  (3) The department may, for good cause shown by the issuer in a written statement submitted to the department prior to such expiration date, extend the expiration date for one, but only one, additional period which shall expire, at the department's discretion, on any date not later than 30 days after the original expiration date. The department shall not, however, have any obligation to provide such an extension; and no issuer shall have any right to such an extension.
(g) If confirmation of issuance is not filed with the department on or before the applicable expiration date, the notice of allocation shall cease to be effective and the amount covered by the notice of allocation shall automatically be added to the appropriate housing reservation, as applicable, if on or before September 30 of 1991 and September 30 each year thereafter or the flexible share if after June 30 of 1990 or September 30 of 1991 and September 30 each year thereafter.
