# § 36-82-252. Plan required; annual review of plan and report

(a) Prior to executing and delivering a qualified interest rate management agreement, the local governmental entity shall have adopted an interest rate management plan that includes:
  (1) An analysis of the interest rate risk, basis risk, termination risk, credit risk, market-access risk, and other risks to the local governmental entity entering into qualified interest rate management agreements;
  (2) The local governmental entity's procedure for approving and executing qualified interest rate management agreements;
  (3) The local governmental entity's plan to monitor interest rate risk, basis risk, termination risk, credit risk, market-access risk, and other risks;
  (4) The local governmental entity's procedure for maintaining current records of all qualified interest rate management agreements that have been approved and executed; and
  (5) Such other provisions as may from time to time be required by the governing body of the local governmental entity, including but not limited to additional provisions due to changes in market conditions for qualified interest rate management agreements.
(b) The local governmental entity shall conduct an annual review of its interest rate management plan as to the adequacy of the procedures set forth in such plan for the analysis and monitoring requirements set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section. A report summarizing the results of such review shall be submitted annually to the governing body of the local governmental entity. The requirements of this subsection shall not be construed as to require the review of any existing interest rate management plan by an independent financial adviser.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 129,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2005.
