# § 36-82-195. Policy guidelines for making allocations

(a) When the department is required to decide which applications should receive a notice of allocation, it shall compare the applications from which the selection is to be made, applying the policy guidelines set forth in this Code section. These policy guidelines are designed to assist the department in making its decisions and are not intended to establish definitive tests or standards. The decision which the department makes shall be final and conclusive. Each of the policy guidelines will be applied following the principle that, if all other things were equal among applications which are being compared, the application which most satisfied the intention of the particular policy guideline would be given a notice of allocation. The policy guidelines are stated in subsection (b) of this Code section, and the order in which they are stated does not indicate any priority of one over another.
(b)
  (1) Special consideration shall be given to projects with a view toward an even and more broadly based geographical distribution of bond issues or bond proceeds, as the case may be, over the state. Applications should be compared based upon the geographic distribution of notices of allocation given during the same calendar year. The department may compare geographic distribution among counties, municipalities, United States congressional districts, or any other geographical areas the department may select. In comparing geographic distribution, the department may consider the amount of bonds covered by notices of allocation and the location of the projects covered by such notices of allocation. For purposes of this policy guideline, the geographic location of student loan bonds shall be considered to be the same as the geographic locations of the educational institutions which are reasonably expected to make use of the proceeds of such student loan bonds; the geographic location of single-family housing bonds shall be considered to be the same as the geographic location of the issuer or, in the case of the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority, the geographic location, specified by the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority to the department in writing; and the geographic location of the private activity portion of governmental use bonds shall be considered to be the same as the geographic location of the issuer.
  (2) Special consideration shall be given to projects that would promote or expand economic opportunities, with particular attention given to areas of economic distress.
  (3) Special consideration shall be given to those projects that will meet a severe and critical need and which can demonstrate a significant impact on the territorial area of the issuer in which the project will be carried out.
  (4) Special consideration shall be given to projects which the department has determined will enhance the public good and general welfare of the state as a whole.
