# § 36-82-191. Applications for single-family bond projects; issue of notice; confirmation; exploration

(a) Applications for single-family bond projects must be filed no later than June 30 of 1990 or September 30 of 1991 and September each year thereafter to be eligible to receive an allocation from the housing share.
(b) Each application for a single-family project shall be accompanied by the following:
  (1) The items specified in Code Section 36-82-185;
  (2) A written opinion of legal counsel, addressed to the department, to the effect that the bonds which are covered by the application will, based upon the information available at that time to such legal counsel, qualify as single-family housing bonds when issued; and
  (3) A letter addressed to the department demonstrating that as of the date of the application for notice of allocation the applicant has reserved to individual mortgagors or projects at least 80 percent of the proceeds of any previous single-family bond issue and, if applicable, actually purchased or underwritten at least 25 percent of the loans funded from all previous single-family bond issues of the applicant for any single-family bond issue.
(c) The department shall give its notice of allocation approving the allocation requested by a qualified application within 15 days after the department receives the completed application, provided that the amount of the applications does not exceed the reservations established in Code Section 36-82-190. Such notices of allocation shall be given with respect to qualified applications in the chronological order, by date, in which the completed qualified applications were received by the department.
(d) The provisions of subsections (e) and (g) of Code Section 36-82-187 with respect to notices of allocation from the economic development share shall also apply to notices of allocation from the single-family bond projects from the local housing reservation.
(e) The expiration date for a notice of allocation for a single-family housing project from any housing reservation shall be 75 days following the date of notice of allocation. The department may, for good cause shown by an issuer, extend the expiration date by not more than 30 days, but no issuer shall have any right to such an extension.
(f) If the confirmation of issuance is not filed with the department on or before the expiration date, the notice of allocation shall cease to be effective and the amount covered by the notice of allocation shall automatically be transferred to and added to the respective reservation in the housing share if on or before June 30 of 1990 or September 30 of 1991 and September 30 each year thereafter or the flexible share if after June 30 of 1990 or September 30 of 1991 and September 30 each year thereafter.
(g) Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, the commissioner may, for good cause shown by an issuer in a written request addressed to the department, waive the provision of paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of this Code section.
