# § 42-3-51. Community service or educational advancement program; letter of application; requirements; limitation of liability

(a) Agencies desiring to allow offenders to participate in their program shall file with the court a letter of application showing:
  (1) Eligibility;
  (2) Number of offenders who may be placed with the agency;
  (3) Work to be performed by the offender; and
  (4) Provisions for supervising the offender.
(b) An agency selected by the court shall work with offenders who are assigned to the agency by the court. If an offender violates a court order, the agency shall report such violation to the community service officer.
(c) If an agency violates any court order or this article, the offender shall be removed from the agency and the agency shall no longer be eligible to participate in the court's community service or in an educational advancement program.
(d) No agency or community service officer shall be liable at law as a result of any of such agency's or community service officer's acts performed while an offender was participating in the court's community service or in an educational advancement program. This limitation of liability shall not apply to actions on the part of any agency or community service officer which constitute gross negligence, recklessness, or willful misconduct.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 42, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 42, eff. 5/12/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 416,§ 2-11, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
