# § 42-3-3. Department of Community Supervision created; responsibilities

(a) There is created the Department of Community Supervision. DCS shall be the agency primarily responsible for:
  (1) Supervision of all defendants who receive a felony sentence of straight probation;
  (2) Supervision of all defendants who receive a split sentence;
  (3) Supervision of all defendants placed on parole or other conditional release from imprisonment by the State Board of Pardons and Paroles;
  (4) Supervision of juvenile offenders released from restrictive custody due to an adjudication for a Class A designated felony act or Class B designated felony act, as such terms are defined in Code Section 15-11-2, except as otherwise provided by the rules and regulations of the Board of Juvenile Justice governing such supervision;
  (5) Administration of laws, rules, and regulations relating to probation and parole supervision, as provided for by law;
  (6) Enforcement of laws, rules, and regulations relating to probation and parole supervision, as provided for by law;
  (7) Administration of laws as provided in this chapter and Chapters 8 and 9 of this title;
  (8) Regulating entities and individuals that provide probation supervision services pursuant to Article 6 of Chapter 8 of this title;
  (9) Reviewing the uniform professional standards for private probation officers and uniform contract standards for private probation contracts established in Code Section 42-8-107 and submit a report with its recommendations to the board. DCS shall submit its initial report on or before January 1, 2018, and shall continue such reviews every two years thereafter. Such report shall provide information which will allow the board to review the effectiveness of the uniform professional standards and uniform contract standards and, if necessary, to revise such standards;
  (10) Producing an annual summary report; and
  (11) Administering laws, rules, and regulations relating to misdemeanor probation supervision pursuant to Article 6 of Chapter 8 of this title.
(b) DCS shall ensure that community supervision officers who supervise juvenile offenders receive the same training to work specifically with children and adolescents as is provided for Department of Juvenile Justice probation officers. DCS shall offer the same array of services to juvenile offenders as are available to offenders who are committed to the Department of Juvenile Justice who are not placed in restrictive custody. With respect to the supervision of children, DCS shall be mindful of the purpose of Chapter 11 of Title 15 as set forth in Code Section 15-11-1.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 5-2, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
