# § 42-3-6. Rules and regulations

(a) The commissioner, with the approval of the board, shall have the power to make and publish reasonable rules and regulations not inconsistent with this title or other laws or with the Constitution of this state or of the United States for the administration of this chapter or any law which it is his or her duty to administer.
(b) The commissioner may prescribe forms as he or she deems necessary for the administration and enforcement of this chapter and Chapters 8 and 9 of this title or any law which it is his or her duty to administer.
(c) The commissioner may confer all powers of a police officer of this state, including, but not limited to, the power to make summary arrests for violations of any of the criminal laws of this state and the power to carry weapons, upon persons in the commissioner's employment as the commissioner deems necessary, provided that individuals so designated meet the requirements specified in all applicable laws.
(d) The commissioner or his or her designee may authorize certain persons in the commissioner's employment to assist law enforcement officers or correctional officers of local governments in preserving order and peace when so requested by such local authorities.
(e) The following rules and regulations shall remain in full force and effect as rules and regulations of DCS until amended, repealed, or superseded by rules or regulations adopted by the board:
  (1) All rules and regulations previously adopted by the Advisory Council for Probation which relate to functions transferred under this chapter from the state-wide probation system to DCS;
  (2) All rules and regulations previously adopted by the Department of Corrections or the Board of Corrections which relate to functions transferred under this chapter from the Department of Corrections to DCS;
  (3) All rules and regulations previously adopted by the State Board of Pardons and Paroles which relate to functions transferred under this chapter from the State Board of Pardons and Paroles to DCS;
  (4) All rules and regulations previously adopted by the Department of Juvenile Justice or the Board of Juvenile Justice which relate to functions transferred under this chapter from the Department of Juvenile Justice to DCS;
  (5) All rules and regulations previously adopted by the County and Municipal Probation Advisory Council which relate to functions transferred under this chapter from the County and Municipal Probation Advisory Council to DCS; and
  (6) All rules and regulations previously adopted by the Governor's Office of Transition, Support, and Reentry which relate to functions transferred under this chapter from the Governor's Office of Transition, Support, and Reentry to DCS.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 5-4, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
