# § 42-3-111. Definitions

(1) "Chief community supervision officer" means the highest ranking field community supervision officer in each judicial circuit.
(2) "Electronic monitoring" means supervising, mapping, or tracking the location of a probationer by means including electronic surveillance, voice recognition, facial recognition, fingerprinting or biometric scan, automated kiosk, automobile ignition interlock device, or global positioning systems which may coordinate data with crime scene information.
(3) "Hearing officer" means an impartial DCS employee or representative who has been selected and appointed to hear alleged cases regarding violations of probation for administrative sanctioning.
(4) "Initial sanction" means the sanction set by the judge upon initial sentencing.
(5) "Options system day reporting center" means a state facility providing supervision of probationers which includes, but is not limited to, mandatory reporting, program participation, drug testing, community service, all special conditions of probation, and general conditions of probation as set forth in Code Section 42-8-35.
(6) "Options system probationer" means a probationer who has been sentenced to the sentencing options system.
(7) "Probation supervision" means a level of probation supervision which includes, but is not limited to, general conditions of probation as set forth in Code Section 42-8-35 and all special conditions of probation.
(8) "Residential substance abuse treatment facility" means a state correctional facility that provides inpatient treatment for alcohol and drug abuse.
(9) "Sentencing options system" means a continuum of sanctions for probationers that includes the sanctions set forth in subsection (c) of Code Section 42-3-113.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
