# § 42-3-5. Administrative functions of department

(a) The commissioner, with the approval of the board, may establish units within DCS as he or she deems proper for its administration and shall designate persons to be assistant commissioners of each unit and to exercise authority as he or she may delegate to them in writing. The commissioner shall establish an offender transition and reentry unit within DCS to coordinate successful offender reentry in this state, reduce recidivism, enhance public safety through collaboration among stakeholders, and assist in ensuring the appropriate and responsible use of cost savings realized by justice reforms through reinvestment in evidence based, community centered services. The commissioner shall establish a misdemeanor probation unit within DCS to coordinate and oversee services provided under Article 6 of Chapter 8 of this title. The commissioner shall establish a victim services unit within DCS to coordinate:
  (1) Payment of court ordered restitution; and
  (2) Victim services, including, but not limited to, payments available to victims as provided by law and assisting victims with support services.
(b) The commissioner shall have the authority to employ as many individuals as he or she deems necessary for the administration of DCS and for the discharge of the duties of his or her office. The commissioner shall issue all necessary directions, instructions, orders, and rules applicable to employees of DCS. The commissioner shall have authority, as the commissioner deems proper, to employ, assign, compensate, and discharge employees of DCS within the limitations of DCS's appropriation and the restrictions set forth by law.
(c) No employee of DCS shall be compensated for services to DCS on a commission or contingent fee basis.
(d) Neither the commissioner nor any community supervision officer or employee of DCS shall be given or receive any fee, compensation, loan, gift, or other thing of value in addition to the compensation and expense allowance provided by law for any service or pretended service either rendered or to be rendered as commissioner or as a community supervision officer or employee of DCS.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 5-3, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
