# § 42-3-7. Transfer of prior appropriations, personnel, equipment, and facilities; probation and parole not affected by creation of department

(a) Appropriations to the Department of Corrections, the Department of Juvenile Justice, the County and Municipal Probation Advisory Council, the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, and the Governor's Office of Transition, Support, and Reentry for functions transferred to DCS pursuant to this chapter shall be transferred to DCS as provided for in Code Section 45-12-90. Personnel, equipment, and facilities previously employed by the Department of Corrections, the Department of Juvenile Justice, the County and Municipal Probation Advisory Council, the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, and the Governor's Office of Transition, Support, and Reentry for functions transferred to DCS pursuant to this chapter shall likewise be transferred to DCS. Any disagreement as to any of such transfers shall be resolved by the Governor. Any individual who is employed by the Department of Corrections as a probation officer or probation supervisor or by the State Board of Pardons and Paroles as a parole officer on or before July 1, 2016, and who is required by the terms of his or her employment to comply with the requirements of Chapter 8 of Title 35, the "Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act," may remain in the employment of the employing agency but shall be transferred for administrative purposes only to DCS on July 1, 2015.
(b) The enactment of this chapter and the Act by which it is enacted shall not affect or abate the status of probation, parole, a probation revocation, or a parole revocation which occurred prior to July 1, 2015.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 5-5, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
