# § 42-3-52. Community service or educational advancement as condition of probation

(a) Community service or educational advancement may be considered as a condition of probation or in lieu of court imposed financial obligations with primary consideration given to the following categories of offenders:
  (1) Traffic violations;
  (2) Ordinance violations;
  (3) Noninjurious or nondestructive, nonviolent misdemeanors;
  (4) Noninjurious or nondestructive, nonviolent felonies; and
  (5) Other offenders considered upon the discretion of the court.
(b) The court may confer with the prosecuting attorney, the offender or his or her attorney if the offender is represented by an attorney, a community supervision officer, a community service officer, or other interested persons to determine if community service or educational advancement is appropriate for an offender. A court order shall specify that the court has approved community service or educational assistance for an offender. If community service or educational advancement is ordered, the court shall order:
  (1) Not less than 20 hours nor more than 250 hours in cases involving traffic or ordinance violations or misdemeanors, such service to be completed within one year; or
  (2) Not less than 20 hours nor more than 500 hours in felony cases, such service to be completed within three years.
(c) The court may order an offender to perform community service hours in a 40 hour per week work detail in lieu of incarceration.
(d) Community service or educational advancement hours may be added to original court ordered hours as a disciplinary action by the court, as an additional requirement of any program in lieu of incarceration, or as part of the sentencing options system as set forth in Article 6 of this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 416,§ 2-11, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
