# § 42-3-10. Appeals of sanctions; venue; no waiver of immunity

(a) In order to appeal a sanction imposed by the board, a person shall remit a request for a hearing, in writing by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, to the board within 30 days from the date of personal notice or receipt of the notice of the sanction; otherwise, the right to such hearing shall be deemed waived. The board shall hold a hearing as provided in Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." If the sanction is sustained, the person who received the sanction shall have a right to file for a judicial review of the final decision, as provided for in Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act"; while such appeal is pending, the order of the board shall not be stayed. A petition for judicial review shall name the board as defendant, shall be served by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, and shall be filed in the superior court of the county where the offices of the board are located.
(b) Actions at law and in equity against the board or any of its members predicated upon omissions or acts done in a member's official capacity or under color thereof shall be brought in the superior court of the county where the offices of the board are located; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall be construed as waiving the immunity of the state to be sued without its consent.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 5-6, eff. 7/1/2016.
