# § 8-2-31. Effect of part

(a) Nothing in this part shall repeal or be construed as abrogating or otherwise affecting the power of any state department or agency to promulgate regulations, make inspections, or approve plans in accordance with any other applicable provisions of law.
(b) Nothing in this part shall be construed as repealing or otherwise affecting authorization for historic preservation districts established pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 10 of Title 44, the "Georgia Historic Preservation Act."
(c) Nothing in this part shall be construed as repealing or otherwise affecting:
  (1) Part 6 of this article, relating to elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, manlifts, and moving walks;
  (2) Article 2 of Chapter 15 of Title 25, the "Boiler Vessel Safety Act";
  (3) Chapter 3 of Title 30, relating to access to and use of public facilities by physically disabled persons; or
  (4) The Georgia State Fire Code as adopted by the Safety Fire Commissioner pursuant to Code Section 25-2-13.
(d) Standards for the construction of manufactured homes covered under Part 2 of Article 2 of this chapter shall be governed by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, as amended, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq., and nothing in this part is intended to permit the adoption of any other standards for or local regulation of the construction of manufactured homes.
(e) Standards relative to liquefied petroleum gas shall be governed by Article 10 of Chapter 1 of Title 10 and no provision of this part shall be construed to permit the adoption of standards, rules, or regulations relative to liquefied petroleum gas by the Department of Community Affairs or the adoption by local governments of regulations or ordinances relative to liquefied petroleum gas in conflict with Article 10 of Chapter 1 of Title 10.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 9, eff. 5/2/2012.
