# § 8-2-104. Employment of inspectors; fees and penalties; rules and regulations

(a) The Commissioner shall be authorized to employ inspectors to carry out the provisions of this part. The Commissioner shall also be authorized to certify other qualified persons to carry out the provisions of this part, including technically competent individuals of any company licensed to insure and insuring elevators in this state and technically competent individuals of a regularly established elevator inspection service. The Commissioner shall prescribe the qualifications, authority, functions, and duties of such inspectors.
(b)
  (1)
    (A) The Commissioner shall by rules and regulations prescribe various inspection fees and operating permit fees necessary to enable the state and local enforcement authorities to carry out the provisions of this part.
    (B) The owners and users of elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, manlifts, and moving walks which are inspected by certified inspectors in private business or with private corporations shall be exempt from the payment to the state or local enforcement authorities of the inspection fees provided in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
  (2) Elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, manlifts, and moving walks subject to operating permit inspections by private inspectors shall be inspected within 60 calendar days following the required reinspection date. Inspections not performed within this 60 calendar day period shall result in a civil penalty of $500.00 for each elevator, dumbwaiter, escalator, manlift, or moving walk not inspected.
  (3) Inspection fees due on elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, manlifts, and moving walks subject to inspection by the chief or deputy inspectors or operating permit fees due from inspections performed by private inspectors shall be paid within 60 calendar days of completion of such inspections. Inspection fees or operating fees unpaid within 60 calendar days shall bear interest at the rate of 1.5 percent per month or any fraction of a month. Interest shall continue to accrue until all amounts due, including interest, are received by the Commissioner.
  (4) The Commissioner may waive the collection of the penalties and interest assessed in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection when it is reasonably determined that the delays in inspection or payment were unavoidable or due to the action or inaction of the office.
(c) The American National Standard Safety Code for elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, and moving walks ANSI A17.1-1984 and the Safety Standards for Manlifts ANSI A90.1-1976 are adopted as rules and regulations of the office for the purposes of this part until otherwise amended by rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
(d) In addition to the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section, the Commissioner shall be authorized to adopt such rules and regulations as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the provisions of this part.
(e) The Commissioner shall also have the power in any particular case to grant exceptions and variations from the literal requirements of the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section. Such exceptions and variations shall be granted only in any particular case where it is clearly evident that they are necessary to prevent undue hardship or where the existing conditions prevent compliance with the literal requirements of the rules and regulations. In no case shall any exception or variation be granted unless, in the opinion of the Commissioner, reasonable safety will be secured thereby.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 8, eff. 5/2/2012.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 8, eff. 5/13/2004.
