# § 8-2-181. Manufactured home as personal property; requirements for real property status; requirements for Certificate of Permanent Location

(a) Except as provided in Subpart 1A of this part, a manufactured home shall constitute personal property and shall be subject to the "Motor Vehicle Certificate of Title Act," Chapter 3 of Title 40, until such time as the home is converted to real property as provided for in this part or as provided in Subpart 1A of this part.
(b) A manufactured home shall become real property if:
  (1) The home is or is to be permanently affixed on real property and one or more persons with an ownership interest in the home also has an ownership interest in such real property; and
  (2) The owner of the home and the holders of all security interests therein execute and file a Certificate of Permanent Location:
    (A) In the real estate records of the county where the real property is located; and
    (B) With the commissioner.
(c) The Certificate of Permanent Location shall be in a form prescribed by the commissioner and shall include:
  (1) The name and address of the owner of the home;
  (2) The names and addresses of the holders of any security interest in and of any lien upon the home;
  (3) The title number assigned to the home;
  (4) A description of the real estate on which the home is or is to be located, including the name of the owner and a reference by deed book and page number to the chain of title of such real property; and
  (5) Any other data the commissioner prescribes.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 736,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 184, § 1, eff. 5/31/2003.
