# § 8-2-135. Licensing

(1) Every manufacturer who manufactures manufactured homes outside the State of Georgia and who sells or offers for sale a manufactured home in Georgia shall apply for and obtain a license;
(2) Every manufacturer who manufactures manufactured homes in Georgia shall apply for and obtain a license;
(3) Every retailer and retail broker who sells or offers for sale new or used manufactured homes or mobile homes in Georgia shall apply for and obtain a license;
(4) Applications for licenses and renewal licenses shall be obtained from the Commissioner and submitted on or before January 1 of each year. All applicants shall certify in the application that all construction, electrical, heating, and plumbing standards will be complied with as set forth in this part and in the rules and regulations of the Commissioner; and
(5) The license and renewal license fee shall be $440.00 per manufacturing plant which manufactures manufactured homes within the State of Georgia; $440.00 per out-of-state manufacturing plant which manufactures manufactured homes for the purpose of offering for sale, or having such homes sold, within the State of Georgia; and $300.00 per retailer location and retail broker which sells, offers for sale, or transports to sell such homes within the State of Georgia. The license shall be valid from January 1 through December 31 of the year in which it was issued. The fee for delinquent renewal applications received after January 10 of each year shall be double the regular annual renewal fee.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-19, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 557, § 1, eff. 1/1/2005
Any provision of 2004 Ga. Laws 557 relating to the payment of fees shall become effective on October 1, 2004.
