# § 8-2-103. Operating permits

(a) An operating report shall be issued by the enforcement authority if the inspection report indicates that the elevator, escalator, manlift, moving walk, or dumbwaiter complies with the applicable rules and regulations prescribed pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 8-2-104 and upon payment of a permit fee. Such permits shall be valid for a period of 12 months.
(b) No elevator, escalator, manlift, moving walk, or dumbwaiter shall be operated by the owner or lessee thereof unless a valid operating permit, or a limited operating permit when permitted by the rules and regulations of the Commissioner, has been issued.
(c) The operating permit shall indicate whether it is issued for an elevator, escalator, manlift, moving walk, or dumbwaiter, state the rated load and speed and, in the case of an elevator, state whether the usage is for passengers or freight. The operating permit shall be posted either conspicuously in the car of an elevator or on the premises. The operating permit for an escalator, manlift, moving walk, or a dumbwaiter shall be posted on the premises.
(d) If the enforcement authority has reason to believe that any owner or lessee to whom an operating permit has been issued is not complying with the applicable rules and regulations specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 8-2-104, it shall so notify such owner or lessee and shall give notice of a date for a hearing thereon to such owner or lessee. If, after such hearing, it shall find that such owner or lessee is not complying with such rules and regulations, it shall revoke such permit and require the owner or lessee to discontinue the use of such elevator, escalator, manlift, moving walk, or power dumbwaiter.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 8, eff. 5/2/2012.
