# § 8-2-112. Inspection and approval of industrialized buildings by commissioner or local government; modifications prohibited; costs; adoption of rules

(a)
  (1) An industrialized building manufactured after the effective date of the rules adopted pursuant to Code Section 8-2-113 which is sold, offered for sale, or installed within this state must bear the insignia of approval issued by the commissioner.
  (2) This Code section shall not apply to industrialized buildings which are inspected and approved by a local government which has jurisdiction at the site of installation and which are inspected at the place of and during the time of manufacture in accordance with standards established by the commissioner. The cost of the inspection shall be borne by the manufacturer. The commissioner shall be notified of the installation of all such buildings in a manner as the commissioner shall prescribe by rule.
(b)
  (1) All industrialized buildings and residential industrialized buildings bearing an insignia of approval issued by the commissioner pursuant to this part shall be deemed to comply with the state minimum standards codes and all ordinances and regulations enacted by any local government which are applicable to the manufacture or installation of such buildings. The determination by the commissioner of the scope of such approval is final. No ordinance or regulation enacted by a county or municipality shall exclude residential industrialized buildings from being sited in such county or municipality in a residential district solely because the building is a residential industrialized building.
  (2) Areas of county and municipal authority including, but not limited to, local land use and zoning, building setback, side and rear yard requirements, utility connections, and subdivision regulation, as well as the regulation of architectural and esthetic requirements, are specifically and entirely reserved to the county, if in the unincorporated area, or the municipality where the industrialized building or residential industrialized building is sited.
  (3) No industrialized building or component bearing an insignia of approval issued by the commissioner pursuant to this part shall be in any way modified prior to or during installation unless approval is first obtained from the commissioner.
  (4) Industrialized buildings which have been inspected and approved by a local government agency shall not be modified prior to or during installation unless approval for the modification is first obtained from the local government agency.
(c) The commissioner by rule shall establish a schedule of fees to pay the costs incurred for the work related to administration and enforcement of this Code section.
(d) All rules and regulations promulgated by the commissioner under this part shall be adopted pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 427,§ 3, eff. 5/20/2010.
