# § 8-2-100. Definitions

(1) "Alteration" means any change or addition to the equipment other than ordinary repairs or replacements.
(2) "Commissioner" means the Safety Fire Commissioner.
(3) "Dumbwaiter" means a hoisting and lowering mechanism which is equipped with a car which moves in guides in a substantially vertical direction, the floor area of which does not exceed nine square feet, the total inside height of which, whether or not provided with fixed or removable shelves, does not exceed four feet, the capacity of which does not exceed 500 pounds, and the use of which is exclusively for carrying materials. Such term includes a power dumbwaiter and a hand dumbwaiter.
(4)
  (A) "Elevator" means a hoisting and lowering mechanism designed to carry passengers or authorized personnel and equipped with a car which moves in fixed guides and serves two or more fixed landings.
  (B) Except as specifically provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 8-2-102, "elevator" also means a freight elevator, gravity elevator, hand elevator, inclined elevator, multideck elevator, observation elevator, passenger elevator, power elevator, electric elevator, hydraulic elevator, direct-plunger hydraulic elevator, electrohydraulic elevator, maintained pressure hydraulic elevator, roped-hydraulic elevator, private residence elevator, and sidewalk elevator.
(5) "Enforcement authority" means the Commissioner, officers, and inspectors of the office authorized to enforce the provisions of this part and local inspectors authorized to enforce the provisions of this part.
(6) "Escalator" means a power driven, inclined, continuous stairway used for raising or lowering passengers.
(7) "Hand dumbwaiter" means a dumbwaiter driven by manual power, serving more than two consecutive stories, whose capacity exceeds 20 pounds and whose car platform area exceeds two square feet.
(8) "Hand elevator" means an elevator utilizing manual power to move the car.
(9) "Hoistway" means a shaftway or an opening through a building or structure for the travel of elevators, dumbwaiters, or material lifts, extending from the pit floor to the roof or floor above.
(10) "Manlift" means a device consisting of a power driven endless belt moving in one direction only which is provided with steps or platforms and handholds attached to it for the transportation of personnel from floor to floor.
(11) "Moving walk" means a type of passenger-carrying device on which passengers stand or walk and in which the passenger-carrying surface remains parallel to its direction of motion and is uninterrupted.
(12) "Office" means the office of Safety Fire Commissioner.
(13) "Power dumbwaiter" means a dumbwaiter driven by the application of energy other than hand or gravity.
(14) "Power freight elevator" means an elevator used primarily for carrying freight, utilizing energy other than gravity or hand to move the car and on which only the operator and the persons necessary for unloading and loading the freight are permitted to ride.
(15) "Power passenger elevator" means an elevator used primarily to carry persons other than the operator and persons necessary for loading and unloading and utilizing energy other than gravity or hand to move the car.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 8, eff. 5/2/2012.
