# § 8-2-27. Energy conservation code; applicability; enforcement; appeals

(a) The design, erection, construction, and alteration of any building to which the International Energy Conservation Code shall apply shall be accomplished so that the building or applicable portions thereof shall meet or conform to such code.
(b) Enforcement of compliance with this Code section shall be solely the province of local governing authorities, except in regard to buildings owned by the state. In state owned buildings, the state agency which owns the building shall provide for the compliance with the code adopted under this part. Local governing authorities are authorized to adopt rules and regulations for the administration and enforcement of the code and to adopt such penalties for violation of the code as they deem appropriate. Local governing authorities are authorized to exercise all the powers enumerated in subsection (a) of Code Section 8-2-26 in enforcement of the International Energy Conservation Code.
(c) The International Energy Conservation Code shall not apply to exempted buildings; and, with respect to renovated buildings, such code shall apply only to portions or systems of the building which are directly involved in the renovation.
(d) The commissioner or his or her designated representative shall have authority to hear appeals relating to the interpretation, enforcement, and administration by local governing authorities of the International Energy Conservation Code and exceptions to such code. The commissioner may, at his or her option, hear de novo cases but shall not hear any appeal until it is determined that the appeal procedures available through the affected local government have been exhausted. If, on appeal, the commissioner determines that the local governing authority erred in its interpretation of the code, he or she shall remand the case to the local government with instructions to take such action as he or she directs. Further appeals may be made as provided by Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 534, § 8, eff. 7/1/2004.
