# § 8-2-182. Recording of Certificate of Permanent Location; responsibilities of commissioner; notification to tax assessors

(a) When a Certificate of Permanent Location is properly filed with the clerk of superior court, the clerk shall record such certificate in the same manner as other instruments affecting the real property described in the Certificate of Permanent Location and shall charge and collect the fees usually charged for recording deeds and other instruments relating to real estate. Such certificate shall be indexed under the name of the current owner of the real property in both the grantor and grantee indexes. The clerk shall provide the owner with a certified copy of the Certificate of Permanent Location, reflecting its filing, and shall charge and collect the fees usually charged for the provision of certified copies of documents relating to real estate.
(b) Upon receipt of a certified copy of a properly executed Certificate of Permanent Location, along with the certificate of title, the commissioner shall file and retain a copy of such Certificate of Permanent Location together with all other prior title records related to the home. When a properly executed Certificate of Permanent Location has once been filed, the commissioner shall accept no further title filings with respect to that home, except as may be necessary to correct any errors in the department's records and except as provided in Subparts 2 and 3 of this part.
(c) When a Certificate of Permanent Location is so filed, the commissioner shall issue to the clerk of the superior court with whom the original Certificate of Permanent Location was filed confirmation by the commissioner that the Certificate of Permanent Location has been so filed and the certificate of title has been surrendered.
(d) Upon receipt of confirmation of the filing of the Certificate of Permanent Location from the commissioner, the clerk of superior court shall provide a copy of the Certificate of Permanent Location to the appropriate board of tax assessors or such other local official as is responsible for the valuation of real property.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 736,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 184, § 1, eff. 5/31/2003.
