# § 8-2-102. Inspections

(a)
  (1) Power passenger elevators, power freight elevators, escalators, manlifts, and moving walks shall be inspected once during each 12 month period; provided, however, that the inspection of such equipment where found within facilities governed by Article 2 of Chapter 9 of Title 32 shall occur once during each six-month period.
  (2) Hand elevators and power and hand dumbwaiters shall be inspected once during each 12 month period.
(b) Inspections and installations shall be made in accordance with the standards set forth in Part "X" of ANSI A17.1-1984, the American National Standard Practice for Inspection of Elevators, Escalators and Moving Walks Inspector's Manual ANSI A17.2, the Safety Standards for Manlifts ANSI A90.1-1976, the Safety Standard for Construction Hoists ANSI A10.4-1981 and ANSI A10.5-1981, the Safety Standard for Conveyors and Related Equipment ANSI B20.1-1984, or the latest revised rules and regulations adopted by the Commissioner. Any inspections performed under these codes shall cover the hoistway, associated equipment rooms, and access thereto, and shall include lobby smoke detectors.
(c) A report of any inspection required by this Code section shall be filed with the office if the inspection is made by a state enforcement authority or with the local governing authority if the inspection is made by a local enforcement authority. Copies of the reports for new installations shall also be filed with the state fire marshal for his or her information. Such reports shall be made within ten days after the inspection has been completed, on forms prescribed by the Commissioner or the local enforcement authority, and shall indicate whether the elevator, escalator, manlift, moving walk, or dumbwaiter is safe and whether it meets the applicable rules and regulations prescribed pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 8-2-104. After any such report is filed, the enforcement authority may require additional inspections to assure that any such elevator, escalator, manlift, moving walk, or dumbwaiter meets such rules and regulations.
(d) If any inspection report indicates that an elevator, escalator, manlift, moving walk, or dumbwaiter is in an unsafe condition which if continually operated may endanger lives or property, then the enforcement authority may, at its discretion, require the owner or lessee to discontinue the use thereof until it has been made safe and in conformity with the rules and regulations specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 8-2-104.
(e) Elevator contractors who perform installations, alterations, repairs, or modifications on elevators, escalators, power freight elevators, moving walks, manlifts, or dumbwaiters, including the hoistways and machine rooms, shall be exempt from the requirements of Code Sections 43-14-8 and 43-14-8.1.
(f) Private residence elevators shall be exempt from mandatory periodic inspections but shall be required to have an initial construction inspection as provided in the rules and regulations of the Commissioner. At the request of the owner or user of a private residence elevator, an inspection may be performed by the office and an inspection report issued. The office shall charge the person requesting the report a fee as set by the Commissioner to cover actual expenses of the inspection.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 406,§ 2, eff. 6/30/2020.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 755,§ 8, eff. 5/2/2012.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 8, eff. 2/12/2001.
