# § 8-2-142. Adjustment of taxes and other fees for certain Georgia-domiciled manufacturers

If any state or foreign country imposes upon Georgia-domiciled manufactured home manufacturers (or upon their agents or representatives) any taxes, licenses, or other fees in the aggregate, or any fines, penalties, or other material obligations, prohibitions, or restrictions, for the privilege of doing business in that state or country, which costs, obligations, prohibitions, or restrictions are in excess of similar costs, obligations, prohibitions, or restrictions imposed by the State of Georgia upon manufactured home manufacturers (or their agents or representatives) which are domiciled in that state or foreign country and which are doing business or are seeking to do business in the State of Georgia, then so long as that state or foreign country continues to impose such costs, obligations, prohibitions, or restrictions upon Georgia-domiciled manufactured home manufacturers (or their agents or representatives), the State of Georgia shall impose upon manufactured home manufacturers (or their agents or representatives) which are domiciled in that state or foreign country and which are doing business or are seeking to do business in Georgia the same costs, obligations, prohibitions, or restrictions which are imposed by that state or foreign country on Georgia-domiciled manufactured home manufacturers (or their agents or representatives) which are doing business or seeking to do business in that state or foreign country. Any tax, license, or other fee or other obligation imposed by any city, county, or other political subdivision or agency of such other state or country on manufactured home manufacturers domiciled in Georgia (or their agents or representatives) shall be deemed to be imposed by such state or country within the meaning of this Code section.

## History

Amended with no change by 2004 Ga. Laws 557, § 1, eff. 1/1/2005.
Any provision of 2004 Ga. Laws 557 relating to the payment of fees shall become effective on October 1, 2004.
