# § 8-2-25. Application of minimum standard codes; local adoption and requirements; exemptions

(a) On and after July 1, 2004, the state minimum standard codes enumerated in subdivisions (9)(A)(i)(I) through (9)(A)(i)(VIII) and (9)(B)(i)(I) through (9)(B)(i)(VIII) of Code Section 8-2-20 shall have state-wide application and shall not require adoption by a municipality or county. The governing authority of any municipality or county in this state is authorized to enforce the state minimum standard codes enumerated in this subsection.
(b) The state minimum standard codes enumerated in subdivisions (9)(A)(i)(IX) through (9)(A)(i)(XIV) and (9)(B)(i)(IX) through (9)(B)(i)(XI) of Code Section 8-2-20 shall not be applicable in a jurisdiction until adopted by a municipality or county. The governing authority of any municipality or county in this state is authorized to adopt and enforce the state minimum standard codes enumerated in this subsection in that subject area which is being regulated by the municipality or county, and a copy of the local ordinance or resolution adopting any such code shall be forwarded to the department in order that such municipality or county may be apprised of subsequent amendments in the state minimum standard code so adopted.
(c)
  (1) In the event that the governing authority of any municipality or county finds that the state minimum standard codes do not meet its needs, the local government may provide requirements not less stringent than those specified in the state minimum standard codes when such requirements are based on local climatic, geologic, topographic, or public safety factors; provided, however, that there is a determination by the local governing body of a need to amend the requirements of the state minimum standard code based upon a demonstration by the local governing body that local conditions justify such requirements not less stringent than those specified in the state minimum standard codes for the protection of life and property. All such proposed amendments shall be submitted by the local governing body to the department 60 days prior to the adoption of such amendment. Concurrent with the submission of the proposed amendment to the department, the local governing body shall submit in writing the legislative findings of the governing body and such other documentation as the local governing body deems helpful in justifying the proposed amendment. The department shall review and comment on a proposed amendment. Such comment shall be in writing and shall be sent to the submitting local government with a recommendation:
    (A) That the proposed local amendment should not be adopted, due to the lack of sufficient evidence to show that such proposed local amendment would be as stringent as the state minimum standard codes and the lack of sufficient evidence to show that local climatic, geologic, topographic, or public safety factors require such an amendment;
    (B) That the proposed local amendment should be adopted, due to a preponderance of evidence that such proposed local amendment would be as stringent as the state minimum standard codes and a preponderance of evidence that the local climatic, geologic, topographic, or public safety factors require such an amendment; or
    (C) That the department has no recommendation regarding the adoption or disapproval of the proposed local amendments, due to the lack of sufficient evidence to show that such proposed local amendment would or would not be as stringent as the state minimum standard codes and the lack of sufficient evidence to show that local climatic, geologic, topographic, or public safety factors require or do not require such an amendment.
  (2) The department shall have 60 days after receipt of a proposed local amendment to review the proposed amendment and make a recommendation as set forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection. In the event that the department fails to respond within the time allotted, the local governing body may adopt the proposed local amendment.
  (3) In the event that the department recommends against the adoption of the proposed local amendment, a local governing body shall specifically vote to reject the department's recommendations before any local amendment may be adopted.
  (4) No local amendment shall become effective until the local governing body has caused a copy of the adopted amendment to be filed with the department. A copy of an amendment shall be deemed to have been filed with the department when it has been placed in the United States mail, return receipt requested.
  (5) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed so as to require approval by the department before a local amendment shall become effective.
  (6) The department shall maintain a file of all amendments to the state minimum standard codes adopted by the various municipalities and counties in the state, which information shall be made available to the public upon request. The department may charge reasonable fees for copies of such information. An index of such amendments shall be included in each new edition of a state minimum standard code.
  (7) At the time of issuing a building permit, the issuing county or municipality shall notify the holder of the permit of any local amendments to the state minimum standard codes which are in effect for that county or municipality and that any such amendments are on file with the department. A county or municipality may satisfy this notice requirement by posting or providing a summary of the topic of such local amendment or amendments and the address and telephone number of the department.
(c.1) Notwithstanding subsection (c) of this Code section, no county or municipality shall prohibit the use of wood as a construction material so long as such use conforms to all applicable state minimum standard codes and the Georgia State Fire Code.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, building related codes or ordinances dealing with the subjects of historic preservation, high-rise construction, or architectural design standards for which a state minimum standard code does not exist may be adopted by a local jurisdiction following review by the department. The department's review shall be limited to a determination that the proposed code or ordinance is consistent with the approved state minimum standard codes when common elements exist and is not less restrictive than the requirement of said codes. Changes to all other state minimum standard codes shall be approved only pursuant to the provisions of this Code section regarding local amendments.
(e)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term:
    (A) "Agriculture," "agricultural operations," or "agricultural or farm products" has the meaning provided by Code Section 1-3-3.
    (B) "Farm" means real property or a portion thereof used for agricultural operations.
    (C) "Farm building or structure" means a building or structure that is located on a farm and designed by the USDA Natural Resources Conservation Service (NRCS), not used for residential purposes, not intended primarily for public use, and used primarily for or in connection with agricultural operations for the sole purposes of manure storage and animal mortality composting or winter feeding and following the standards and specifications of NRCS practice codes 313 - Waste Storage Facility and 317 - Composting Facility as detailed in the USDA NRCS Field Office Technical Guide as such existed on January 1, 2011.
  (2) Farm buildings or structures shall be exempt from the state minimum standard building codes provided for in subdivisions (9)(B)(i)(I) and (9)(B)(i)(IX) of Code Section 8-2-20 and any amendment thereto adopted by the department pursuant to Code Section 8-2-23 or by a municipality or county pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 466,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 8, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 87,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2011.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 534, § 5, eff. 7/1/2004.
