# § 8-2-135.1. Manufacturing and monitoring inspection fees

(a) During such time as the Commissioner's office is acting as the primary inspection agency pursuant to Section 623 of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq., or the regulations issued thereunder, every manufacturer who manufactures manufactured homes in Georgia shall pay to the Commissioner a manufacturing inspection fee for each manufactured home manufactured in Georgia, irrespective of whether the manufactured home is offered for sale in this state. This manufacturing inspection fee shall be $30.00 for each certification label, as defined in Section 623 of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq. For any reinspection, a $15.00 additional fee shall be charged.
(b) During such time as the Commissioner's office is acting as the state administrative agency pursuant to Section 623 of the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq., a monitoring inspection fee paid by each manufacturer in Georgia for each manufactured home manufactured in this state shall be paid to the secretary of the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development or to the secretary's agent for distribution in accordance with the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq., and the regulations promulgated thereunder.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-20, eff. 5/12/2010.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 557, § 1, eff. 1/1/2005
Any provision of 2004 Ga. Laws 557 relating to the payment of fees shall become effective on October 1, 2004.
