# § 8-2-160. Definitions

(1) "Commissioner" means the Safety Fire Commissioner.
(2) "Installation" means the construction of a foundation system and the placement or erection of a manufactured home or a mobile home on the foundation system. Such term includes, without limitation, supporting, blocking, leveling, securing, or anchoring such home and connecting multiple or expandable sections of such home.
(3) "Installer" means a person responsible for performing an installation and who is required to obtain a license pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 8-2-164.
(4) "Manufactured home" means a new or used structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein; except that such term shall include any structure which meets all the requirements of this paragraph except the size requirements and with respect to which the manufacturer voluntarily files a certification required by the secretary of housing and urban development and complies with the standards established under the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.
(5) "Manufacturer" means any person who constructs or assembles manufactured housing.
(6) "Mobile home" means a new or used structure, transportable in one or more sections, which, in the traveling mode, is eight body feet or more in width or 40 body feet or more in length or, when erected on site, is 320 or more square feet and which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without a permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the plumbing, heating, air-conditioning, and electrical systems contained therein and built prior to June 15, 1976.
(7) "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, or any other legal entity, but shall not include a trust or the state or any political subdivision thereof.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 8, eff. 3/13/2015.
Amended with no change by 2004 Ga. Laws 557, § 2, eff. 1/1/2005.
