# § 8-2-24. Advisory committee; review of proposed amendments, modifications, and new provisions

(a) For the purpose of assisting the department in carrying out the provisions of Code Section 8-2-23, the commissioner shall appoint an advisory committee to be composed of 21 members as follows:
  (1) The Safety Fire Commissioner or his or her designee as an ex officio member with full voting privileges;
  (2) The commissioner of public health or his or her designee as an ex officio member with full voting privileges;
  (3) The commissioner of community affairs or his or her designee as an ex officio member with full voting privileges;
  (4) One representative of the home-building industry;
  (5) One representative of the industrialized building industry;
  (6) One representative of the general contracting industry;
  (7) One representative of the profession of mechanical engineering;
  (8) One licensed architect;
  (9) One licensed electrical engineer;
  (10) One representative of the manufactured homes industry;
  (11) One licensed electrical contractor;
  (12) One building material dealer;
  (13) One licensed plumbing contractor;
  (14) One licensed conditioned-air contractor;
  (15) One licensed structural engineer;
  (16) Four municipal or county code enforcement officials; and
  (17) Two local fire officials.
(b) All appointments to the committee shall be for a term of four years; provided, however, that the initial members appointed pursuant to paragraphs (4), (5), (6), (7), (9), (15), (16), and (17) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be appointed for a term to expire on the same date as the terms of other members. A member shall serve until his or her successor has been duly appointed. The commissioner shall make appointments to fill the unexpired portion of any term vacated for any reason. In making such appointments, the commissioner shall preserve the composition of the committee as required by this Code section. Any appointed member who, during his or her term, ceases to meet the qualifications for original appointment shall thereby forfeit his or her membership on the committee. Membership on the committee shall not constitute public office, and no member shall be disqualified from holding public office by virtue of his or her membership. Each member of the committee shall serve without compensation, but each member of the committee shall be reimbursed for travel and other reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by him or her while attending called meetings of the committee.
(c) The advisory committee shall be empowered to use subcommittees as it deems necessary to carry out its duties and responsibilities. Members of such subcommittees shall be knowledgeable of the subject matter with which the subcommittee is concerned and shall be appointed by the commissioner upon the recommendation of the advisory committee. Such subcommittee members shall be reimbursed for travel and other necessary expenses while attending subcommittee meetings in the same manner as that of advisory committee members.
(d) Any amendments, modifications, or new provisions to the state minimum standard codes, when such are prepared, proposed, or recommended by the department, shall, prior to their submission to the board for approval, be submitted to the advisory committee for review and consideration. The department shall not forward any such amendment, modification, or new provision to the board without a favorable recommendation of a majority of the advisory committee.
(e) The advisory committee shall have at least two regular meetings annually and shall meet at other times as determined by the commissioner.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 8, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 8, eff. 3/13/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-5, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 534, § 4, eff. 7/1/2004.
