# § 8-2-111. Definitions

(1) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of community affairs.
(2) "Component" means any assembly, subassembly, or combination of parts for use as a part of a building, which may include structural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, and fire protection systems and other systems affecting health and safety.
(3) "Industrialized building" means any structure or component thereof which is designed and constructed in compliance with the state minimum standards codes and is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in manufacturing facilities for installation or assembly and installation on a building site and has been manufactured in such a manner that all parts or processes cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof.
(4) "Installation" means the assembly of an industrialized building on site and the process of affixing the industrialized building, component, or system to land, a foundation, footings, or an existing building.
(5) "Local government" means a county or municipality of this state.
(6) "Manufacture" means the process of making, fabricating, constructing, forming, or assembling a product from raw, unfinished, or semifinished materials.
(6.1) "Residential industrialized building" means any dwelling unit designed and constructed in compliance with the Georgia State Minimum Standard One and Two Family Dwelling Code which is wholly or in substantial part made, fabricated, formed, or assembled in a manufacturing facility and cannot be inspected at the installation site without disassembly, damage to, or destruction thereof. Any such structure may or may not contain a permanent metal chassis but shall be affixed to a permanent load-bearing foundation. The term shall not include manufactured homes as defined by the National Manufactured Housing Construction and Safety Standards Act of 1974, 42 U.S.C. Section 5401, et seq.
(7) "Site" means the entire tract, subdivision, or parcel of land on which the industrialized building is installed.
(8) "System" means structural, plumbing, mechanical, electrical, or fire safety elements, materials, or components used separately or combined for use in a building.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 555,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 8, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 427,§ 2, eff. 5/20/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 427,§ 1, eff. 5/20/2010.
