# § 8-2-30. Applicability of part

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, this part shall apply to all installations, alterations, and repairs of plumbing, air-conditioning and heating, or electrical systems within or on public or private buildings, structures, or premises.
(b) This part shall not apply to the installation, alteration, or repair of plumbing, air-conditioning and heating, or electrical systems up to and including the meters, where such work is performed by or is an integral part of the system owned or operated by a public service corporation or by the water or gas department of any city in this state in rendering its duly authorized service as such.
(c) This part shall not apply to the installation, alteration, or repair of plumbing, air-conditioning and heating, or electrical systems where such work is an integral part of the system owned or operated, in rendering its duly authorized service as such, by a railroad company, a pipeline company, a mining company, or a public utility in the exercise of its normal functions as a public utility, or where such work is an integral part of any irrigation system on farms, ranches, or other open, unpopulated areas where such work will not be located within 30 feet of any dwelling or any building devoted to animal husbandry.
(d) This part shall not prohibit an individual from installing, altering, or repairing plumbing systems and fixtures, air-conditioning and heating systems and fixtures, or electrical systems in a single-family dwelling owned and occupied by him or her, provided that all such work must be done in conformity with all other provisions of this part and the orders, rules, and regulations of the department.
(e) This part shall not prohibit an individual from installing, altering, or repairing plumbing systems and fixtures, air-conditioning and heating systems and fixtures, or electrical systems in a farm or ranch building owned or occupied by him or her, provided that all such work must be done in conformity with all other provisions of this part and the orders, rules, and regulations of the department.
(f) This Code section shall not affect or abrogate the requirements of the International Energy Conservation Code.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 534, § 9, eff. 7/1/2004.
