# § 43-5-11. Hearing before board when license denied, revoked, or suspended; reissuance of license

(a) Any person whose application for a license is denied is entitled to a hearing before the board if he submits a written request to the board.
(b) Proceedings for revocation or suspension of a license shall be commenced by filing charges with the board in writing and under oath. The charges may be made by any person or persons.
(c) The division director shall fix a time and place for a hearing and shall cause a written copy of the charges or reason for denial of a license, together with a notice of the time and place fixed for hearing, to be served on the applicant requesting the hearing or licensee against whom the charges have been filed at least 20 days prior to the date set for the hearing. Service of charges and notice of hearing may be given by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the last known address of the licensee or applicant.
(d) At the hearing, the applicant or licensee has the right to appear either personally or by counsel, or both, to produce witnesses, to have subpoenas issued by the board, and to cross-examine the opposing or adverse witnesses.
(e) The board is not bound by strict rules of procedure or by the laws of evidence in the conduct of the proceedings, but the determination shall be founded upon sufficient legal evidence to sustain it.
(f) The board shall determine the charges on their merits and enter an order in a permanent record setting forth the findings of fact and law and the action taken. A copy of the order of the board shall be mailed to the applicant or licensee at his last known address by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery.
(g) On application, the board may reissue a license to a person whose license has been canceled or revoked, but the application may not be made prior to the expiration of a period of six months after the order of cancellation or revocation has become final; and the application shall be made in the manner and form as the board may require.
