# § 43-5-1. Definitions

(1) "Athletic injury" means any injury sustained by a person as a result of such person's participation in exercises, sports, games, or recreational activities, or any activities requiring physical strength, agility, flexibility, range of motion, speed, or stamina without respect to where or how the injury occurs. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to expand the scope of practice of an athletic trainer beyond the determination of the advising and consenting physician as provided for in paragraph (2) of this Code section.
(2) "Athletic trainer" means a person with specific qualifications, as set forth in Code Sections 43-5-7 and 43-5-8 who, upon the advice and consent of a physician, carries out the practice of prevention, recognition, evaluation, management, disposition, treatment, or rehabilitation of athletic injuries; and, in carrying out these functions, the athletic trainer is authorized to use physical modalities, such as heat, light, sound, cold, electricity, or mechanical devices related to prevention, recognition, evaluation, management, disposition, rehabilitation, and treatment. Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require licensure of elementary or secondary school teachers, coaches, or authorized volunteers who do not hold themselves out to the public as athletic trainers.
(3) "Board" means the Georgia Board of Athletic Trainers.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 43, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 775,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 78,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
