# § 33-15-40. Formation of society; petition for charter; preliminary certificate of authority; advance premiums; certificate of authority

(a) A domestic society organized on or after January 1, 1994, shall be formed as provided in this Code section. Ten or more citizens of the United States, a majority of whom are citizens of this state, who desire to form a fraternal benefit society, may make, sign, and acknowledge before some officer competent to take acknowledgment of deeds, a petition for a charter, in which shall be stated:
  (1) The proposed corporate name of the society, which shall not so closely resemble the name of any society or insurance company as to be misleading or confusing;
  (2) The purposes for which it is being formed and the mode in which its corporate powers are to be exercised. Such purposes shall not include more liberal powers than are granted by this chapter; and
  (3) The names and residences of the incorporators and the names, residences, and official titles of all the officers, trustees, directors, or other persons who are to have and exercise the general control of the management of the affairs and funds of the society for the first year or until the ensuing election at which all such officers shall be elected by the supreme governing body, which election shall be held not later than one year from the date of issuance of the permanent certificate of authority.
(b) The petition for a charter, duly certified copies of the society's bylaws and rules, copies of all proposed forms of certificates, applications therefor, circulars to be issued by the society, and a bond conditioned upon the return to applicants of the advanced payments if the organization is not completed within one year shall be filed with the Secretary of State, who may require such further information which is deemed necessary. The bond with sureties approved by the Commissioner shall be in such amount, not less than $300,000.00 nor more than $1.5 million, as required by the Commissioner. All documents filed are to be in the English language. The Secretary of State shall transmit immediately one copy of the petition to the Commissioner and shall return one copy to the petitioner. The petition for a charter, with any and all exhibits attached thereto, shall be published in the manner provided in subsection (b) of Code Section 33-14-5. If the purposes of the society conform to the requirements of this chapter and all provisions of the law have been complied with, the Commissioner shall so certify in writing to the Secretary of State and shall furnish the incorporators a preliminary certificate of authority authorizing the society to solicit members as hereinafter provided, but only after the granting of the certificate of incorporation by the Secretary of State.
(c) No preliminary certificate of authority granted under the provisions of this Code section shall be valid after one year from its date or after such further period, not exceeding one year, as may be authorized by the Commissioner upon cause shown, unless the 500 applicants hereinafter required have been secured and the organization has been completed as provided in this chapter. The charter and all other proceedings thereunder shall become null and void in one year from the date of the preliminary certificate of authority, or at the expiration of the extended period, unless the society shall have completed its organization and received a certificate of authority to do business as provided in subsection (f) of this Code section.
(d) A fraternal benefit society shall be incorporated by the Secretary of State upon compliance with the applicable provisions of law.
(e) Upon receipt of a preliminary certificate of authority from the Commissioner, the society may solicit members for the purpose of completing its organization, shall collect from each applicant the amount of not less than one regular monthly premium in accordance with its table of rates, and shall issue to each such applicant a receipt for the amount so collected. No society shall incur any liability other than for the return of such advance premium, nor issue any certificate, nor pay, allow, or offer or promise to pay or allow any benefit to any person until:
  (1) Actual bona fide applications for benefits have been secured aggregating at least $500,000.00 on not less than 500 applicants and any necessary evidence of insurability has been furnished to and approved by the society;
  (2) At least ten subordinate lodges have been established into which the 500 applicants have been admitted;
  (3) There has been submitted to the Commissioner, under oath of the president or secretary or corresponding officer of the society, a list of such applicants, giving their names, addresses, date each was admitted, name and number of the subordinate lodge of which each applicant is a member, amount of benefits to be granted, and the premiums therefor; and
  (4) It shall have been shown to the Commissioner, by sworn statement of the treasurer or corresponding officer of such society, that at least 500 applicants have each paid in cash at least one regular monthly premium as provided in this subsection, which premiums in the aggregate shall amount to at least $150,000.00. Said advance premiums shall be held in trust during the period of organization and, if the society has not qualified for a certificate of authority within one year as provided in this Code section, such premiums shall be returned to said applicants.
(f) The Commissioner may make such examination and require such further information as the Commissioner deems advisable. Upon presentation of satisfactory evidence that the society has complied with all the provisions of law, the Commissioner shall issue to the society a certificate of authority to that effect and that the society is authorized to transact business pursuant to the provisions of this chapter. The certificate of authority shall be prima-facie evidence of the existence of the society at the date of such certificate. The Commissioner shall cause a record of such certificate of authority to be made. A certified copy of such record may be given in evidence with like effect as the original certificate of authority.
(g) Any incorporated society authorized to transact business in this state on January 1, 1994, shall not be required to reincorporate.
