# § 33-15-101. Annual statements

(a) Reports shall be filed in accordance with the provisions of this Code section. Every society transacting business in this state shall annually, on or before March 1, unless for cause shown such time has been extended by the Commissioner, file with the Commissioner a true statement of its financial condition, transactions, and affairs for the preceding calendar year. The statement shall be in general form and context as approved by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners for fraternal benefit societies and as supplemented by additional information required by the Commissioner.
(b) As part of the annual statement required by this Code section, each society shall, on or before March 1, file with the Commissioner a valuation of its certificates in force on December 31 last preceding, provided the Commissioner may, in his or her discretion for cause shown, extend the time for filing such valuation for not more than two calendar months. Such valuation shall be done in accordance with the standards specified in Code Section 33-15-100. Such valuation and underlying data shall be certified by a qualified actuary or, at the expense of the society, verified by the actuary of the department of insurance of the state of domicile of the society.
(c) A society neglecting to file the annual statement in the form and within the time provided by this Code section shall forfeit $100.00 for each day during which such neglect continues and, upon notice by the Commissioner to that effect, its authority to do business in this state shall cease while such default continues.
