# § 33-15-64. Provisions on control of exercise of rights incident to certificate; printing; notice and consent requirements

(a) Any provision of a certificate which stipulates or relates to the control of the exercise of all rights incident to the certificate shall be set out under a separate caption and shall be printed in boldface type.
(b) Any provision of a certificate which changes the control of the exercise of all rights incident to the certificate from the original applicant to the named member upon such member's attainment of a certain age, which is less than the age of legal majority as provided in Code Section 39-1-1, shall not become effective unless written notice has been given to the original applicant and the named member and the written consent of such parties has been obtained as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(c) The notice as required in subsection (b) of this Code section shall be given 180 days prior to the date the member will attain the designated age. The notice shall be delivered in person or given by depositing the notice in the United States mail to be dispatched by at least first-class mail to the last addresses of record of the original applicant and the named member and receiving the receipt provided by the United States Postal Service or such other evidence as prescribed or accepted by the United States Postal Service.
(d) In the event the written consent of the original applicant and the named member is not obtained prior to the date such member reaches the age designated in the certificate, the original applicant shall retain control of the exercise of all rights incident to the policy until the date the named member reaches the age of legal majority as defined in Code Section 39-1-1.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-74, eff. 7/1/2019.
