# § 33-15-104. Licensing of foreign or alien societies

(a) No foreign or alien society shall transact business in this state without a license issued by the Commissioner. Any such society desiring admission to this state shall comply substantially with the requirements and limitations of this chapter applicable to domestic societies. Any such society may be licensed to transact business in this state upon a showing that its assets are invested in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and upon filing with the Commissioner:
  (1) A duly certified copy of its articles of incorporation;
  (2) A copy of its bylaws, certified by its secretary or corresponding officer;
  (3) A power of attorney to the Commissioner as prescribed in Code Section 33-15-120;
  (4) A statement of its business under oath of its president and secretary or corresponding officers in a form prescribed by the Commissioner, duly verified by an examination made by the supervisory insurance official of its home state or other state, territory, province, or country, satisfactory to the Commissioner of this state;
  (5) Certification from the proper official of its home state, territory, province, or country that the society is legally incorporated and licensed to transact business therein;
  (6) Copies of its certificate forms; and
  (7) Such other information as the Commissioner may deem necessary.
(b) A society domiciled in any other state, territory, province, or country shall comply fully with this chapter and agree to be treated as a domestic society unless:
  (1) The state, territory, province, or country of domicile is accredited under the National Association of Insurance Commissioners Financial Regulation Standards and Accreditation Program; and
  (2) The state, territory, province, or country of domicile has a statute or regulation governing fraternal benefit societies which is substantially similar to this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-76, eff. 7/1/2019.
