# § 14-10-8. Management

(a) Board of governors; officers. A professional association organized pursuant to this chapter shall be governed by a board of governors elected by the members or shareholders and represented by officers elected by the board of governors so that centralization of management will be assured and no member shall have the power to bind the association within the scope of the association's business or profession merely by virtue of his being a member or shareholder of the association. Members of the board of governors need not be members or shareholders of the professional association. Officers, with the exception of the president, need not be members of the board of governors. No officer or member of the board of governors who is not duly licensed to practice the profession for which the professional association was organized shall participate in any decisions constituting the practice of said profession. The officers of the association shall include a president, vice-president, secretary, treasurer, and such other officers as the board of governors may determine. Any one person may serve in more than one office, except that the president and the secretary of the professional association shall not be the same person.
(b) Bylaws. The members may adopt such bylaws as they may deem proper, or the power to promulgate bylaws of the association may be delegated by the articles of association to the board of governors of the professional association as the members or shareholders may decide.
(c) Voting. Each member or shareholder shall have such power to cast such vote or votes at the meeting of the members or shareholders as the articles of association shall provide.
(d) Agents and employees. The officers of the professional association may employ such agents or employees of the association as they may deem advisable, subject to Code Section 14-10-6.
