# § 14-10-4. Formation

(a) Articles of association.
  (1) Filing; contents. To form a professional association, such persons shall execute and file articles of association in the office of the clerk of the superior court in the county in which the association's principal office is located. Articles of association may contain any provision not in violation of law or the public policy of this state as the members of the association may decide.
  (2) Recording; fees. The clerk shall record the articles of association and any amendments thereto or instruments of dissolution thereof in the same manner as required for articles of incorporation and shall receive a fee as required by paragraph (1) of subsection (g) of Code Section 15-6-77. Articles shall not be required to be published or recorded elsewhere. Such record of the articles, when so recorded, shall be notice of the articles to the world as well as to all parties dealing with such association.
  (3) Amendment; dissolution. The articles may be amended or dissolved at any time by agreement of two-thirds of the members at any regular meeting or at a special meeting called for that purpose and upon filing the amendment or instrument of dissolution in the same place or places as the original article of association.
(b) Name. The persons forming the association shall adopt such name for the association as they in their discretion may determine; but the name selected shall be followed by the words "Professional Association" or the abbreviation "P.A."

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 105,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-36, eff. 5/12/2010.
