# § 14-10-10. Ownership

(a) Stock-type and nonstock associations. A professional association organized pursuant to this chapter may issue stock or certificates evidencing ownership of an interest in the assets of the professional association to its members; the association may be a nonstock organization with the members owning no individual interest in the assets of the association but with the rights and duties specified in the articles of association; or the association may be a nonstock organization with the members owning undivided interests in the assets of the association according to the articles of association.
(b) Transferability. The stock or certificates of ownership, if a stock-type association or a membership in a nonstock association, shall be freely transferable except as may be lawfully restricted in the articles of association.
(c) Shareholders and members. A professional association may issue its capital stock if it is a stock-type association or accept as members of the professional association, if a nonstock association, only persons who are duly licensed or otherwise legally authorized to render the same professional service as that for which the professional association was organized.
(d) Estate of deceased shareholder or member. Subject to the articles of association, the estate of a member or shareholder who was a person duly licensed or otherwise legally authorized to render the same professional service as that for which the professional association was organized may continue to hold stock or membership pursuant to the articles of association for a reasonable period of administration of the estate, but shall not be authorized to participate in any decisions concerning the rendering of professional service.
