# § 53-9-1. Presumption or proof of death; presumption that missing person predeceased other deceased individual; perils or tragedies resulting in probable death

(a) A domiciliary of this state who has been missing from the last known place of domicile for a continuous period of four years shall be presumed to have died; provided, however, that such presumption of death may be rebutted by proof. The date of death is presumed to be the end of the four-year period unless it is proved by a preponderance of the evidence that death occurred earlier.
(b) When any domiciliary of this state has been missing from the last known place of domicile for a continuous period of 12 months or more, the death of the individual may be proved by a preponderance of the evidence.
(c) Notwithstanding any proof of a date of death that is earlier than the end of the four-year period set out in subsection (a) of this Code section, the missing individual shall be deemed to have predeceased any other individual who has died prior to the date any petition for letters or other action on the missing individual's estate is filed and from whom the missing individual would have taken an interest in property as an heir or beneficiary or otherwise.
(d) When any domiciliary of this state has been exposed to a specific peril or tragedy resulting in probable death, the death of the individual may be proved by clear and convincing evidence at any time after such exposure.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 71,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
