# § 53-9-14. Report of conservator; court order

The conservator shall within 60 days after appointment make a written report to the probate court setting forth the condition of the estate of the missing individual, together with a schedule of any debts that may be owed by the missing person, an estimate of the income from the estate and the expenses necessary to its preservation, a statement showing the names, ages, and condition of any individuals who may have been dependent on the missing person for support, and a recommendation as to how the estate should be distributed. The court, after considering the report and making any further investigation the court may deem necessary, shall make such order as will most effectively tend to provide for the support of any individuals who may have been dependent upon the missing individual for support and for the handling of the property, including any business or business interest, owned by the missing person. The order may provide for the payment of those debts of the missing person as the court deems just and proper. An order of an appropriate court may allow the conservator to engage in such estate planning dispositions of the missing person's property as are authorized by Code Sections 29-3-36 and 29-5-36. The order may be modified in the discretion of the court at any time upon petition by the conservator, any individual dependent upon the missing individual for support, the guardian of any such individual, or any person having an interest in the property or in any business of the missing individual.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 460,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2005
