# § 34-14-1. Creation of State Workforce Development Board; federal composition requirements; meetings; promulgation of rules and regulations authorized; administration of programs

(a)
  (1) Pursuant to Public Law 105-220 and any subsequent amendment to such law, the State Workforce Development Board is hereby created.
  (2) The State Workforce Development Board shall meet federal composition requirements. The Lieutenant Governor and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall each have the authority to appoint members as federal law allows. The Governor shall be responsible for selecting the remainder of the members.
  (3) The State Workforce Development Board's members' terms of service shall be established by the Governor and shall be at the discretion of the appointing authority.
  (4) The State Workforce Development Board shall have powers and duties as specified by the Governor and as provided for in federal law.
  (5) The State Workforce Development Board shall be authorized to establish, alter, or amend local workforce development areas in this state and shall be authorized to promulgate rules implementing and governing such local workforce development areas that are compliant with federal law.
  (6) The State Workforce Development Board shall meet quarterly or when otherwise requested by the chairperson and shall be governed by a set of bylaws which shall be voted on and approved by the State Workforce Development Board.
  (7) The State Workforce Development Board shall be funded by federal law.
  (8) The State Workforce Development Board shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations for purposes of implementing the state's workforce policy that are compliant with federal law.
(b)
  (1) The Technical College System of Georgia is designated as the administrator of all programs for which the state is responsible pursuant to Public Law 105-220 and any subsequent amendment to such law.
  (2) The Technical College System of Georgia shall administer such programs and their associated funds pursuant to the policies and methods of implementation which are promulgated by the State Workforce Development Board and the Governor.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 289,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2018.
Former §§ 34-14-1 to 34-14-28, relating to the Georgis Workforce Investment Board, was repealed by 2015 Ga. Laws 186,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Former § 34-14-1, relating to the Governor's Employment and Training Council, was repealed by 2010 Ga. Laws 361,§ 1, eff. 5/20/2010.
