# § 36-63-11. Construction of chapter generally; applicability of certain other provisions of law to proceedings under chapter; effect of chapter with respect to other development authorities

(a) This chapter shall be liberally construed to effect the purposes hereof. Sale or issuance of bonds by any authority shall not be subject to regulation under Chapter 5 of Title 10, the "Georgia Uniform Securities Act of 2008," or any other law. Any sale or disposition of any useful form of energy produced from a solid waste project financed by revenue bonds issued on or before August 8, 1985, and which is substantially constructed as of January 1, 1987, which sale or disposition is made in the county wherein the project is located shall not be subject to the provisions of Part 3 of Article 1 of Chapter 3 of Title 46, "The Georgia Cogeneration and Distributed Generation Act of 2001." In the event that the immediately preceding sentence of this subsection shall for any reason be held invalid, the remaining provisions of this subsection and this Code section shall remain in full force and effect. No proceeding or publication not required in this chapter shall be necessary to the performance of any act authorized in this chapter, nor shall any such act be subject to referendum.
(b) A municipal corporation, a county, or any number of counties and municipal corporations shall have the right to activate an authority under this chapter, notwithstanding the existence of any other development authority within the county or municipal corporation created pursuant to any general law or amendment to the Constitution of this state. However, nothing in this chapter shall be construed as repealing, amending, superseding, or altering the organization of or abridging the powers of such authorities as are now in existence.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 36, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 528,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2009.
