# § 15-11-320. Termination of parental rights; findings; standard of proof

(a) When the court finds that any ground set out in Code Section 15-11-310 is proved by clear and convincing evidence and that termination of parental rights is in a child's best interests, it shall order the termination of the parent's rights.
(b) The court's order shall:
  (1) Contain written findings on which the order is based, including the factual basis for a determination that grounds for termination of parental rights exist and that termination is in the best interests of the child, including the findings required by subsection (c) of Code Section 15-11-300;
  (2) Be conclusive and binding on all parties from the date of entry;
  (3) Grant custody of the child at issue in accordance with Code Section 15-11-321; and
  (4) Inform the parent whose rights have been terminated of his or her right to use the services of the Georgia Adoption Reunion Registry; however, failure to include such information shall not affect the validity of the judgment.
(c) If the court does not order the termination of parental rights but the court finds that there is clear and convincing evidence that a child is a dependent child, the court may enter a disposition order in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter.
(d) The court shall transmit a copy of every final order terminating the parental rights of a parent to the State Adoption Unit of the department within 15 days of the filing of such order.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 479,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 285,§ 1-2, eff. 9/1/2018.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
