# § 15-11-502. Procedure after taking child into custody; detention

(a) A person taking an alleged delinquent child into custody, with all reasonable speed and without first taking such child elsewhere, shall:
  (1) Immediately release such child, without bond, to his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian upon such person's promise to bring such child before the court when requested by the court;
  (2) Immediately deliver such child to a medical facility if such child is believed to suffer from a serious physical condition or illness which requires prompt treatment and, upon delivery, shall promptly contact a juvenile court intake officer. Immediately upon being notified by the person taking such child into custody, the juvenile court intake officer shall determine if such child can be administered a detention assessment and if so, shall conduct such assessment and determine if such child should be released, remain in protective custody, or be brought before the court; or
  (3) Bring such child immediately before the juvenile court or promptly contact a juvenile court intake officer. The court or juvenile court intake officer shall determine if such child should be released or detained. All determinations and court orders regarding detention shall comply with the requirements of this article and shall be based on an individual detention assessment of such child and his or her circumstances.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, a law enforcement officer may detain an alleged delinquent child for a reasonable period of time sufficient to conduct interrogations and perform routine law enforcement procedures including but not limited to fingerprinting, photographing, and the preparation of any necessary records.
(c) Prior to a detention hearing, an alleged delinquent child shall be placed in detention, if necessary, only in such places as are authorized by Code Section 15-11-504.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
