# § 15-11-211. Relative search by DFCS

(a) A diligent search shall be initiated at the outset of a case under this article and shall be conducted throughout the duration of a case, when appropriate.
(b) A diligent search shall include at a minimum:
  (1) Interviews with the child's parent during the course of an investigation, while child protective services are provided, and while such child is in care;
  (2) Interviews with the child;
  (3) Interviews with identified relatives throughout the case;
  (4) Interviews with any other person who is likely to have information about the identity or location of the person being sought;
  (5) Comprehensive searches of data bases available to DFCS including, but not limited to, searches of employment, residence, utilities, vehicle registration, child support enforcement, law enforcement, corrections records, and any other records likely to result in identifying and locating the person being sought;
  (6) Appropriate inquiry during the course of hearings in the case; and
  (7) Any other reasonable means that are likely to identify relatives or other persons who have demonstrated an ongoing commitment to the child.
(c) All adult relatives of the alleged dependent child identified in a diligent search required by this Code section and all parents of a sibling of such child, when such parent has legal custody of such sibling, subject to exceptions due to family or domestic violence, shall be provided with notice:
  (1) Specifying that an alleged dependent child has been or is being removed from his or her parental custody;
  (2) Explaining the options a relative has to participate in the care and placement of the alleged dependent child and any options that may be lost by failing to respond to the notice;
  (3) Describing the process for becoming an approved foster family home and the additional services and supports available for children placed in approved foster homes; and
  (4) Describing any financial assistance for which a relative may be eligible.
(d) The diligent search required by this Code section and the notification required by subsection (c) of this Code section shall be completed, documented in writing, and filed with the court within 30 days from the date on which the alleged dependent child was removed from his or her home and at each periodic review hearing required by Code Section 15-11-216.
(e) After the completion of the diligent search required by this Code section, DFCS shall have a continuing duty to search for relatives or other persons who have demonstrated an ongoing commitment to a child and with whom it may be appropriate to place the alleged dependent child until such relatives or persons are found or until such child is placed for adoption unless the court excuses DFCS from conducting a diligent search. If a relative entitled to notice under subsection (c) of this Code section fails, within six months from the date he or she receives the required notice, to demonstrate an interest in and willingness to provide a permanent home for a child, the court may excuse DFCS from considering such relative as a placement.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 15, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 143,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 77,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-13, eff. 4/28/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
