# § 15-11-543. Notice of alibi defense

(a) Upon written request by a prosecuting attorney stating the time, date, and place at which the alleged delinquent act was committed, a child shall serve upon the prosecuting attorney a written notice of his or her intention to offer a defense of alibi.
(b) A notice to offer an alibi defense shall state the specific place or places at which a child claims to have been at the time of the alleged delinquent act and the names, addresses, dates of birth, and telephone numbers of the witnesses, if known to the child, upon whom such child intends to rely to establish his or her alibi, unless previously supplied.
(c) A request for alibi evidence shall be complied with promptly and not later than 48 hours prior to the adjudication hearing, except when later compliance is made necessary by the timing of the request. If the request for alibi evidence is made fewer than 48 hours prior to the adjudication hearing, the alibi evidence shall be produced in a timely manner.
(d) If a child withdraws his or her notice of intention to rely upon an alibi defense, the notice and intention to rely upon an alibi defense shall not be admissible; provided, however, that a prosecuting attorney may offer any other evidence regarding alibi.
(e) A prosecuting attorney shall serve upon a child a written notice stating the names, addresses, dates of birth, and telephone numbers of the witnesses, if known to the state, upon whom the state intends to rely to rebut such child's evidence of alibi, unless previously supplied.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
