# § 15-11-561. Waiver of juvenile court jurisdiction and transfer to superior court

(a) After a petition alleging delinquency has been filed but before the adjudication hearing, on its own motion or on a motion by a prosecuting attorney, the court may convene a hearing to determine whether to transfer the offense to the appropriate superior court for criminal trial if the court determines that:
  (1) There is probable cause to believe that a child committed the alleged offense;
  (2) Such child is not committable to an institution for the developmentally disabled or mentally ill; and
  (3) The petition alleges that such child:
    (A) Was at least 15 years of age at the time of the commission of the offense and committed an act which would be a felony if committed by an adult; or
    (B) Was 13 or 14 years of age and either committed an act for which the punishment is loss of life or confinement for life in a penal institution or committed aggravated battery resulting in serious bodily injury to an alleged victim who is not a public safety officer as such term is defined in Code Section 16-5-19.
(b) At least three days prior to the scheduled transfer hearing, written notice shall be given to a child and his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian. The notice shall contain a statement that the purpose of the hearing is to determine whether such child is to be tried in the juvenile court or transferred for trial as an adult in superior court. A child may request and the court shall grant a continuance to prepare for the transfer hearing.
(c) After consideration of a probation report, risk assessment, and any other evidence the court deems relevant, including any evidence offered by a child, the court may determine that because of the seriousness of the offense or such child's prior record, the welfare of the community requires that criminal proceedings against such child be instituted. The court shall also consider the criteria listed in subsection (a) of Code Section 15-11-562.
(d) No child, either before or after reaching 17 years of age, shall be prosecuted in superior court for an offense committed before the child turned 17, unless the case has been transferred as provided in this part. In addition, no child shall be subject to criminal prosecution at any time for an offense arising out of a criminal transaction for which the juvenile court retained jurisdiction in its transfer order.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 198,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 75,§ 1-13, eff. 5/5/2015.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
