# § 15-11-107. Treatment by spiritual means; life-threatening condition or disability exception

(a) A parent, guardian, or legal custodian's reliance on prayer or other religious nonmedical means for healing in lieu of medical care, in the exercise of religious beliefs, shall not be the sole basis for considering his or her child to be a dependent child; provided, however, that the religious rights of a parent, guardian, or legal custodian shall not limit the access of a child to medical care in a life-threatening situation or when the condition will result in serious disability.
(b) In order to make a determination as to whether a child is in a life-threatening situation or that a child's condition will result in serious disability, the court may order a medical evaluation of a child.
(c) If the court determines, on the basis of any relevant evidence before the court, including the court ordered medical evaluation and the affidavit of the attending physician, that a child is in a life-threatening situation or that a child's condition will result in serious disability, the court may order that medical treatment be provided for such child.
(d) A child whose parent, guardian, or legal custodian inhibits or interferes with the provision of medical treatment in accordance with a court order shall be considered to be a dependent child and the court may find the parent, guardian, or legal custodian in contempt and enter any order authorized by and in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 15-11-31.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
