# § 15-11-132. Verbal custody order

(a) The facts supporting the issuance of an order of removal may be relayed orally, including telephonically, to the judge or a designated juvenile court intake officer, and the order directing that a child be taken into custody may be issued orally or electronically.
(b) When a child is taken into custody under exceptional circumstances, an affidavit or sworn complaint containing the information previously relayed orally, including telephonically, shall be filed with the clerk of the court the next business day, and a written order shall be issued if not previously issued. Only when a child is taken into custody under exceptional circumstances can an affidavit or sworn complaint be filed. The written order shall include the court's findings of fact supporting the necessity for such child's removal from the custody of his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian in order to safeguard such child's welfare and shall designate a child's legal custodian.
(c) The affidavit or sworn complaint filed after a child has been placed shall indicate whether the child was released to such child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian or remains removed.
(d) DFCS shall promptly notify the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the nature of the allegations forming the basis for taking a child into custody and, if such child is not released, of the time and place of the preliminary protective hearing.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 67,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
