# § 15-11-300. Notice of hearings to specified parties; required findings

(a) In advance of each hearing to terminate parental rights, DFCS shall give written notice of the date, time, place, and purpose of the hearing to the caregiver of the child at issue, the foster parents of such child, if any, any preadoptive parent, or any relative providing care for such child, including the right to be heard. The written notice shall be delivered to the recipient at least 72 hours before the review or hearing by United States mail, e-mail, or hand delivery.
(b) This Code section shall not be construed to require a caregiver, foster parent, preadoptive parent, or relative caring for the child at issue to be made a party to the hearing solely on the basis of such notice and right to be heard.
(c) At any termination of parental rights hearing, the court shall make specific findings of fact in writing regarding participation by the caregiver of a child, the foster parent of a child, any preadoptive parent, or any relative providing care for a child. Such findings of fact shall include:
  (1) Whether the caregiver was provided notice of the hearing, including the method, and whether the caregiver expressed an interest in being heard at the hearing; and
  (2) If the caregiver is present, specific information regarding the caregiver's views, including, but not limited to, concerning the child's well-being, health, and safety; any changes the caregiver believes are necessary to advance the child's well-being, health, and safety; and the timeliness, necessity, and quality of services being provided to the child and caregiver; and a summary of documentation presented by the caregiver regarding the child's well-being, health, and safety, including, but not limited to, reports from physicians, counselors, psychologists, and teachers.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 479,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2021.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
