# § 15-11-510. Intake; informal adjustment

(a) If an alleged delinquent child has not been detained after the filing of a complaint, he or she shall be promptly referred to intake or given a date for arraignment.
(b) At intake, the court, the juvenile court intake officer, or other officer designated by the court shall inform a child of:
  (1) The contents of the complaint;
  (2) The nature of the proceedings;
  (3) The possible consequences or dispositions that may apply to such child's case following adjudication; and
  (4) His or her due process rights, including the right to an attorney and to an appointed attorney; the privilege against self-incrimination; that he or she may remain silent and that anything said may be used against him or her; the right to confront anyone who testifies against him or her and to cross-examine any persons who appear to testify against him or her; the right to testify and to compel other witnesses to attend and testify in his or her own behalf; the right to a speedy adjudication hearing; and the right to appeal and be provided with a transcript for such purpose.
(c) A juvenile court intake officer may elect to pursue a case through informal adjustment or other nonadjudicatory procedure in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 15-11-515.
(d) If a case is to be prosecuted further and handled other than by informal adjustment or other nonadjudicatory procedure, a referral shall be made to the prosecuting attorney and a petition for delinquency shall be filed within 30 days of the filing of a complaint.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
