# § 15-11-64. Collection of information by juvenile court clerks; reporting requirement; data collection

(a) Each clerk of the juvenile court shall collect the following information for each child in need of services, delinquent child, and child accused of a class A designated felony act or class B designated felony act and provide such information to DJJ as frequently as requested by DJJ:
  (1) Name;
  (2) Date of birth;
  (3) Sex;
  (4) Race;
  (5) Offense charged;
  (6) Location of the offense, including the name of the school if the offense occurred in a school safety zone, as defined in Code Section 16-11-127.1;
  (7) The name of the referral source, including the name of the school if the referring source was a school;
  (8) Disposition of the case; and
  (9) Date of and authority for commitment, if applicable.
(b) Each clerk of the juvenile court shall report to the Administrative Office of the Courts the total number of petitions or motions filed under subsection (b) of Code Section 15-11-682 for the previous calendar year and, of that number, the number in which the court appointed a guardian ad litem, the number in which the court appointed counsel, the number in which the judge issued an order authorizing an abortion without notification, the number in which the judge denied such an order, and, of the last, the number of denials from which an appeal was filed, the number of appeals that resulted in denials being affirmed, and the number of appeals that resulted in reversals of such denials. Each clerk shall make such report by March 15 of each year for the previous calendar year. The individual reports made to the Administrative Office of the Courts shall be held confidential and not subject to disclosure under Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, relating to open records. The Administrative Office of the Courts shall provide aggregated statistics only in accordance with subsection (g) of Code Section 16-12-141.1. Such individual reports shall be destroyed six months after submission to the Administrative Office of the Courts.
(c) Pursuant to rules adopted by the Supreme Court of Georgia, on and after January 1, 2021, each clerk of the juvenile court shall collect data on each child alleged or adjudicated to be a delinquent child and transmit such data as required by such rules. The Supreme Court of Georgia shall make and publish in print or electronically such state-wide minimum standards and rules as it deems necessary to carry out this subsection. Each clerk of the juvenile court shall develop and enact policies and procedures necessary to carry out the standards and rules created by the Supreme Court of Georgia.
(d) Pursuant to rules adopted by the Supreme Court of Georgia, on and after January 1, 2021, each clerk of the juvenile court shall collect data on all cases in which a child alleged or adjudicated to be a child in need of services or a delinquent child is placed in foster care and has also been alleged or adjudicated to be a dependent child and shall transmit such data as required by such rules.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 468,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 466,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2020.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 416,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 424,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
