# § 15-11-210. Disposition hearing

(a) If not held in conjunction with an adjudication hearing, a disposition hearing shall be held and completed within 30 days after the conclusion of an adjudication hearing.
(b) The court may consider any evidence, including hearsay evidence, that the court finds to be relevant, reliable, and necessary to determine the needs of a child adjudicated as a dependent child and the most appropriate disposition.
(c) Before determining the appropriate disposition, the court shall receive in evidence:
  (1) The social study report as provided for in Code Section 15-11-191, if applicable, and the child adjudicated as a dependent child's proposed written case plan. The social study report and case plan shall be filed with the court not less than 48 hours before the disposition hearing;
  (2) Any study or evaluation made by a guardian ad litem appointed by the court;
  (3) Any psychological, medical, developmental, or educational study or evaluation of the child adjudicated as a dependent child; and
  (4) Other relevant and material evidence as may be offered, including, but not limited to, the willingness of the caregiver to provide legal permanency for the child adjudicated as a dependent child if reunification is unsuccessful.
(d) Prior to a disposition hearing, and upon request, the parties and their attorneys shall be afforded an opportunity to examine any written reports received by the court.
(e)
  (1) Portions of written reports received by the court which are not relied on by the court in reaching its decision, which if revealed would be prejudicial to the interests of any party to the proceeding, or which reveal confidential sources, may be withheld in the court's discretion.
  (2) Parties and their attorneys shall be given the opportunity to controvert written reports received by the court and to cross-examine individuals making such reports.
(f) At the conclusion of the disposition hearing, the court shall set the time and date for the first periodic review hearing and the permanency plan hearing.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-12, eff. 4/28/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
