# § 15-11-400. Child in need of services; time limitations for continued custody or temporary custody hearings

(a) The continued custody hearing for a child alleged to be a child in need of services shall be held promptly and no later than:
  (1) Twenty-four hours, excluding weekends and holidays, after such child is taken into temporary custody if he or she is being held in a secure residential facility or nonsecure residential facility; or
  (2) Seventy-two hours, excluding weekends and holidays, after such child is placed in foster care.
(b) If a child alleged to be a child in need of services was never taken into temporary custody or is released from temporary custody at the continued custody hearing, the following time frames apply:
  (1) The petition for a child in need of services shall be filed:
    (A) Within 30 days of the filing of the complaint with the juvenile court; or
    (B) Within 30 days of such child's release from temporary custody;
  (2) Summons shall be served at least 72 hours before the adjudication hearing;
  (3) An adjudication hearing shall be scheduled to be held no later than 60 days after the filing of the petition for a child in need of services; and
  (4) If not held in conjunction with an adjudication hearing, a disposition hearing shall be held and completed within 30 days after the conclusion of an adjudication hearing.
(c) If a child alleged to be a child in need of services is not released from temporary custody at the continued custody hearing, the following time frames apply:
  (1) The petition for a child in need of services shall be filed within five days of the continued custody hearing;
  (2) Summons shall be served at least 72 hours before an adjudication hearing;
  (3) An adjudication hearing shall be scheduled to be held no later than ten days after the filing of the petition for a child in need of services; and
  (4) If not held in conjunction with an adjudication hearing, a disposition hearing shall be held and completed within 30 days after the conclusion of an adjudication hearing.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-25, eff. 4/28/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
