# § 15-11-682. Parental notification of abortion; hearing; venue

(a) No physician or other person shall perform an abortion upon an unemancipated minor unless:
  (1)
    (A) The unemancipated minor seeking an abortion is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian who shall show proper identification and state that he or she is the lawful parent or guardian of the unemancipated minor and that he or she has been notified that an abortion is to be performed on the unemancipated minor;
    (B) The physician or the physician's qualified agent gives at least 24 hours' actual notice, in person or by telephone, to the parent or guardian of the unemancipated minor of the pending abortion and the name and address of the place where the abortion is to be performed; provided, however, that, if the person so notified indicates that he or she has been previously informed that the unemancipated minor was seeking an abortion or if the person so notified has not been previously informed and he or she clearly expresses that he or she does not wish to consult with the unemancipated minor, then in either event the abortion may proceed in accordance with Chapter 9A of Title 31; or
    (C) The physician or a physician's qualified agent gives written notice of the pending abortion and the address of the place where the abortion is to be performed, sent by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested with delivery confirmation, addressed to a parent or guardian of the unemancipated minor at the usual place of abode of the parent or guardian. Unless proof of delivery is otherwise sooner established, such notice shall be deemed delivered 48 hours after mailing. The time of mailing shall be recorded by the physician or agent in the unemancipated minor's file. The abortion may be performed 24 hours after the delivery of the notice; provided, however, that, if the person so notified certifies in writing that he or she has been previously informed that the unemancipated minor was seeking an abortion or if the person so notified has not been previously informed and he or she certifies in writing that he or she does not wish to consult with the unemancipated minor, then in either event the abortion may proceed in accordance with Chapter 9A of Title 31; and
  (2) The unemancipated minor signs a consent form stating that she consents, freely and without coercion, to the abortion.
(b) If the unemancipated minor or the physician or a physician's qualified agent, as the case may be, elects not to comply with any one of the requirements of subparagraph (a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B), or (a)(1)(C) of this Code section, or if the parent or legal guardian of the unemancipated minor cannot be located, the unemancipated minor may petition, on his or her own behalf or by next friend, any juvenile court in the state for a waiver of such requirement pursuant to the procedures provided for in Code Section 15-11-684. The juvenile court shall assist the unemancipated minor or next friend in preparing the petition and notices required pursuant to this Code section. Venue shall be lawful in any county.
(c) No abortion shall be performed unless the requirements of subparagraph (a)(1)(A), (a)(1)(B), or (a)(1)(C) of this Code section have been met or the unemancipated minor has obtained a court order waiving such requirements.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
