# § 15-11-340. Criteria for receiving services; development of transition plan; termination

(a) A child may receive extended care youth services from DFCS. In order to receive such services, he or she must be between 18 and 21 years of age, sign a voluntary placement agreement with DFCS, and meet objective eligibility criteria established by DFCS, which shall include one or more of the following requirements:
  (1) Be completing secondary education or a program leading to an equivalent credential;
  (2) Be enrolled in an institution which provides postsecondary or vocational education;
  (3) Be a participant in a program or activity designed to promote or remove barriers to employment;
  (4) Be employed for at least 120 hours per month;
  (5) Be employed for 80 hours per month, provided that he or she is also engaged in one of the activities described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this subsection or can only work 80 hours per month due to a medical condition; or
  (6) Be incapable of doing any of the activities described in paragraphs (1) through (5) of this subsection due to a medical condition.
(b) When a child is receiving extended care youth services from DFCS, a DFCS case manager and staff, other representatives of such child and, as appropriate, such child shall develop a transition plan that is personalized at the direction of such child, including an option to execute a durable power of attorney for health care, health care proxy, or other similar document recognized by law with respect to health care and specific options on housing, health insurance, education, local opportunities for mentors and continuing support services, and workforce supports and employment services, and is as detailed as such child may elect. Such transition plan shall be completed within 30 days of the child agreeing to such services and shall be updated as required by this article.
(c) A child may terminate a voluntary placement agreement and stop receiving extended care youth services at any time.
(d) Every 12 months, a DFCS case manager shall determine if a child is still eligible for extended care youth services. If DFCS determines that a child is no longer eligible for extended care youth services, DFCS may terminate the voluntary placement agreement with such child and stop providing extended care youth services. DFCS shall provide written or electronic notice to such child regarding such termination and to the court that approved such services.
(e) A child who is within 12 months of becoming 21 years of age shall not be permitted to sign a voluntary placement agreement with DFCS for extended care youth services.
(f) The trial court may appoint an attorney for a child at all stages of the proceedings under this article with the child's consent. If a child does not have an attorney, a child shall be informed prior to any hearing of their right to have legal representation and shall be given an opportunity to:
  (1) Obtain an attorney of his or her own choice;
  (2) Obtain a court appointed attorney in the court's discretion; or
  (3) Waive the right to an attorney.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 67,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 466,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2020.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 472,§ 1-5, eff. 7/1/2020.
