# § 15-11-721. Petition requirements

(a) A child seeking emancipation shall file a petition for emancipation in the juvenile court in the county where such child resides. The petition shall be signed and verified by the petitioner and shall include:
  (1) The petitioner's full name and birth date and the county and state where the petitioner was born;
  (2) A certified copy of the petitioner's birth certificate;
  (3) The name and last known address of the petitioner's parent, guardian, or legal custodian and, if no parent, guardian, or legal custodian can be found, the name and address of the petitioner's nearest living relative residing within this state;
  (4) The petitioner's present address and length of residency at that address;
  (5) A declaration by the petitioner demonstrating the ability to manage his or her financial affairs together with any information necessary to support the declaration;
  (6) A declaration by the petitioner demonstrating the ability to manage his or her personal and social affairs together with any information necessary to support the declaration; and
  (7) The names of individuals who have personal knowledge of the petitioner's circumstances and believe that under those circumstances emancipation is in the best interests of the petitioner. Such individuals may include any of the following:
    (A) A licensed physician, physician assistant, or osteopath;
    (B) A registered professional nurse or licensed practical nurse;
    (C) A licensed psychologist;
    (D) A licensed professional counselor, social worker, or marriage and family therapist;
    (E) A school guidance counselor, school social worker, or school psychologist;
    (F) A school administrator, school principal, or school teacher;
    (G) A member of the clergy;
    (H) A law enforcement officer; or
    (I) An attorney.
(b) If the petition provided for under subsection (a) of this Code section is based on the petitioner's desire to enter into a valid marriage, the petitioner shall:
  (1) Be at least 17 years of age;
  (2) In addition to the requirements provided for under subsection (a) of this Code section, include in such petition the name, age, date of birth, and address of residence of the intended spouse;
  (3) Include a statement of the reasons why the petitioner desires to marry, how the parties came to know each other, and how long they have known each other; and
  (4) Attach copies of any criminal records of either party to be married and of any family violence or stalking protective order issued to protect or restrain either party to be married.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 187,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
