# § 15-11-532. Sanctions for failure to obey summons

(a) In the event a child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian willfully fails to appear personally at a hearing on a petition alleging delinquency after being ordered to so appear or a child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian willfully fails to bring such child to a hearing after being so directed, the court may issue a rule nisi against the person directing the person to appear before the court to show cause why he or she should not be held in contempt of court.
(b) If a parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the alleged delinquent child fails to appear in response to an order to show cause, the court may issue a bench warrant directing that such parent, guardian, or legal custodian be brought before the court without delay to show cause why he or she should not be held in contempt and the court may enter any order authorized by the provisions of Code Section 15-11-31.
(c) If a child 16 years of age or older fails to appear at a hearing on a petition alleging delinquency after being ordered to so appear, the court may issue a bench warrant requiring that such child be brought before the court without delay and the court may enter any order authorized by the provisions of Code Section 15-11-31.
(d) If there is sworn testimony that a child less than 16 years of age willfully refuses to appear at a hearing on a petition alleging delinquency after being ordered to so appear, the court may issue a bench warrant requiring that such child be brought before the court and the court may enter any order authorized by the provisions of Code Section 15-11-31.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-41, eff. 4/28/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
