# § 15-11-31. Contempt powers; other sanctions

(a) In addition to all other inherent powers of the court to enforce its lawful orders, the court may punish an adult for contempt of court by imprisonment for not more than 20 days or a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 for willfully disobeying an order of the court or for obstructing or interfering with the proceedings of the court or the enforcement of its orders.
(b) The court shall restrict and limit the use of contempt powers with respect to commitment of a child to a secure residential facility or nonsecure residential facility and in no event shall a child solely alleged or adjudicated to be a dependent child be placed in a secure residential facility or nonsecure residential facility.
(c) A child may be placed in a secure residential facility or nonsecure residential facility for not more than 72 hours if:
  (1) He or she is found in contempt of court; and
  (2) Less restrictive alternatives have been considered and are unavailable or inappropriate or if such child has already been ordered to serve a less restrictive alternative sanction but failed to comply with the sanction.
(d) In addition or as an alternative to the punishment provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, after notice and opportunity to be heard, the court may impose any or all of the following sanctions when a parent, guardian, or legal custodian other than DJJ or DFCS willfully violates any order issued by the court directed to him or her:
  (1) Require a child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian to make restitution as provided in Code Section 17-14-5;
  (2) Reimburse the state for the costs of detention, treatment, or rehabilitation of a child;
  (3) Require a child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian to participate in a court approved educational or counseling program designed to contribute to the ability to provide proper parental care and supervision of such child, including, but not limited to, parenting classes; or
  (4) Require a child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian to enter into a contract or plan as a part of the disposition of any charges against such child so as to provide for the supervision and control of such child by his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian and reunification with such child.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
