# § 15-11-15. Transfers from superior court; custody and support

(a) In handling divorce, alimony, habeas corpus, or other cases involving the custody of a child, a superior court may transfer the question of the determination of custody, support, or custody and support to the juvenile court either for investigation and a report back to the superior court or for investigation and determination.
(b) If the referral is for investigation and determination, then the juvenile court shall proceed to handle the matter in the same manner as though the action originated under this chapter in compliance with the order of the superior court, except that the parties shall not be entitled to obtain an appointed attorney through the juvenile court.
(c) At any time prior to the determination of any question regarding custody, support, or custody and support, the juvenile court may transfer the jurisdiction of the question back to the referring superior court.
(d) In handling criminal cases involving an accused who is in jeopardy of having his or her parental rights terminated due to criminal charges, a superior court may transfer a criminal case to a family treatment court division of a juvenile court for treatment and a report back to the superior court so long as the prosecuting attorney and accused agree to such transfer; provided, however, that such juvenile court may transfer such case back to the referring superior court at any time.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 1-5, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
