# § 15-11-582. Adjudication hearing; time limitations; findings

(a) The court shall fix a time for the adjudication hearing. If an alleged delinquent child is in detention, the hearing shall be held no later than ten days after the filing of the delinquency petition. If a child is not in detention, the hearing shall be held no later than 60 days after the filing of such petition.
(b) Adjudication hearings shall be conducted:
  (1) By the court without a jury;
  (2) In accordance with Article 5 and Part 1 of Article 6 of Chapter 7 and Chapter 8 of Title 17, unless otherwise provided in this article;
  (3) In accordance with the rules of evidence set forth in Title 24; and
  (4) In language understandable to the child subject to the delinquency petition and participants, to the fullest extent practicable.
(c) The court shall determine if the allegations of the petition alleging delinquency are admitted or denied in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 15-11-580.
(d) After hearing all of the evidence, the court shall make and record its findings on whether the delinquent acts ascribed to a child were committed by such child. If the court finds that the allegations of delinquency have not been established, it shall dismiss the delinquency petition and order such child be released from any detention or legal custody imposed in connection with the proceedings.
(e) The court shall make a finding that a child has committed a delinquent act based on a valid admission made in open court of the allegations of the delinquency petition or on the basis of proof beyond a reasonable doubt. If the court finds that a child has committed a delinquent act, the court may proceed immediately or at a postponed hearing to make disposition of the case.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-43, eff. 4/28/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
