# § 15-11-40. Information sharing; confidentiality

(a) Notwithstanding any provision contained in this chapter or in any rule or regulation adopted by any department, board, or agency of the state to the contrary, the court and any individual, public or private agency, or other entity participating in a community based risk reduction program may exchange, as necessary, information, medical records, school records, immigration records, records of adjudication, treatment records, and any other records or information which may aid in the assessment of and intervention with the children and families in such program if such exchange of information is ordered by the court or consented to by the parties. Such information shall be used by such individuals and agencies only for the purposes provided in this chapter and as authorized by the court for the purpose of implementing the case plan and for the purposes permitted under each agency's own rules and regulations. Such information shall not be released to any other individual or agency except as may be necessary to effect the appropriate treatment or intervention as provided in the case plan. Such information shall otherwise remain confidential as required by state and federal law and the court may punish any violations of confidentiality as contempt of court.
(b) Any person who authorizes or permits any unauthorized person or agency to have access to confidential records or reports of child abuse shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person who knowingly and under false pretenses obtains or attempts to obtain confidential records or reports of child abuse or information contained therein shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c) Confidential records or reports of child abuse and information obtained from such records may not be made a part of any record which is open to the public except that a prosecuting attorney may use and make public that record or information in the course of any criminal prosecution for any offense which constitutes or results from child abuse.
(d) This Code section shall not abridge the provisions relating to confidentiality of patient or client records and shall not serve to destroy or in any way abridge the confidential or privileged character thereof.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
