# § 15-11-58. [Effective Until 7/1/2025] Council of Juvenile Court Judges; role; director

(a) All of the judges and associate judges of the courts exercising jurisdiction over children shall constitute a Council of Juvenile Court Judges. The council shall annually elect from among its members a judge to serve as presiding judge and chairperson of the council.
(b) The Council of Juvenile Court Judges:
  (1) Shall meet at stated times to be fixed by it or on call of the chairperson;
  (2) May establish general policies for the conduct of courts exercising jurisdiction over children;
  (3) May promulgate uniform rules and forms governing procedures and practices of the courts;
  (4) Shall publish in print or electronically an annual report of the work of the courts exercising jurisdiction over children, which shall include statistical and other data on the courts' work and services, research studies the council may make of the problems of children and families dealt with by the courts, and any recommendations for legislation; and
  (5) Shall be authorized to inspect and copy records of the courts, law enforcement agencies, the department, the Department of Community Supervision, and DJJ for the purpose of compiling statistical data on children.
(c) Subject to the approval of the Council of Juvenile Court Judges, the presiding judge of the council shall appoint a chief administrative and executive officer for the council who shall have the title of director of the Council of Juvenile Court Judges. Under the general supervision of the presiding judge of the council and within the policies established by the council, the director shall:
  (1) Provide consultation to the courts regarding the administration of court services and the recruitment and training of personnel;
  (2) Make recommendations to the council for improvement in court services;
  (3) With the approval of the presiding judge, appoint consultants and necessary clerical personnel to perform the duties assigned to the council and the director;
  (4) Collect necessary statistics and prepare an annual report of the work of the courts;
  (5) Promulgate in cooperation with DJJ standard procedures for coordinating DJJ, the Department of Community Supervision, and county juvenile probation services throughout this state; and
  (6) Perform such other duties as the presiding judge of the council shall specify.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-9, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
