# § 15-11-37. Supervision fees

(a) The court may collect supervision fees from those who are placed under the court's formal or informal supervision in order that the court may use those fees to expand the provision of the following types of ancillary services:
  (1) Housing in nonsecure residential facilities;
  (2) Educational services, tutorial services, or both;
  (3) Counseling and diagnostic testing;
  (4) Mediation;
  (5) Transportation to and from court ordered services;
  (6) Truancy intervention services;
  (7) Restitution programs;
  (8) Job development or work experience programs;
  (9) Community services; and
  (10) Any other additional programs or services needed to meet the best interests, development, and rehabilitation of a child.
(b)
  (1) The juvenile court may order each delinquent child or child in need of services who receives supervision to pay to the clerk of the court:
    (A) An initial court supervision user's fee of not less than $10.00 nor more than $200.00; and
    (B) A court supervision user's fee of not less than $2.00 nor more than $30.00 for each month that a child receives supervision.
  (2) A child and his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian may be jointly and severally liable for the payment of fees set forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection and shall be subject to the enforcement procedure in subsection (c) of Code Section 15-11-36. The judge shall provide that any such fees shall be imposed on such terms and conditions as shall assure that the funds for the payment are from moneys earned by such child. All moneys collected by the clerk under this subsection shall be transferred to the county treasurer, or such other county official or employee who performs duties previously performed by the treasurer, who shall deposit the moneys into a county supplemental juvenile services fund. The governing authority of the county shall appropriate moneys from the county supplemental juvenile services fund to the juvenile court for the court's discretionary use in providing community services described in subsection (a) of this Code section to child offenders. These funds shall be administered by the county and the court may draw upon them by submitting invoices to the county. The county supplemental juvenile services fund may be used only for these services. Any moneys remaining in the fund at the end of the county fiscal year shall not revert to any other fund but shall continue in the county supplemental juvenile services fund. The county supplemental juvenile services fund may not be used to replace other funding of services.
(c) The clerk of the court shall be responsible for collections of fees as ordered by the court.
(d) For the purpose of this Code section, the term "legal custodian" shall not be interpreted or construed to include the department or DJJ.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
