# § 15-11-215. Notice of change in placement hearings; use of hearsay evidence; presumptions

(a) Not less than five days in advance of any placement change, DFCS shall, in writing, notify the court; a child who is 14 years of age or older; the child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian; the person or agency with physical custody of the child; the child's attorney; the child's guardian ad litem, if any; and any other attorney of record of such change in the location of the child's placement while the child is in DFCS custody. The notice required by this subsection may include notice via email if the caregiver or other party who will receive the notification has agreed to receive notice via email.
(b) If a child's health or welfare may be endangered by any delay in changing his or her placement, the court and all attorneys of record shall be notified of such placement change within 24 hours of such change.
(c) A child adjudicated as a dependent child who is 14 years of age or older, his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian; the person or agency with physical custody of the child; such child's attorney; such child's guardian ad litem, if any; and any attorney of record may request a hearing pertaining to such child's case plan or the permanency plan in order for the court to consider the change in the location of such child's placement and any changes to the case plan or permanency plan resulting from such child's change in placement location. The hearing shall be held within five days of receiving notice of a change in the location of such child's placement and prior to any such placement change, unless such child's health or welfare may be endangered by any delay in changing such child's placement.
(d) The Council of Juvenile Court Judges shall by rule provide for methods by which persons entitled to notice, including those not represented by counsel, may electronically file an objection to the placement change. Such rule shall provide for the use of a standard form that the objector may file electronically with the clerk of court and which upon filing shall be distributed electronically to all parties and others entitled to notice.
(e) At the hearing to consider the case plan and permanency plan of a child adjudicated as a dependent, the court shall consider the case plan and permanency plan recommendations made by DFCS, including a recommendation as to the location of the placement of such child, and shall make findings of fact upon which the court relied in determining to reject or accept the case plan or permanency plan and the recommendations made by DFCS, including the location of such child's placement. The court shall specifically consider any objections filed to the change of placement and shall consider evidence pertaining to such objections, including, but not limited to, evidence from the child and the foster parent, relative, or caregiver.
(f) The court may consider any evidence, including hearsay evidence, that the court finds to be relevant, reliable, and necessary to determine the needs of a child adjudicated as a dependent child and the most appropriate case plan and permanency plan.
(g) If the court rejects DFCS recommendations, the court shall demonstrate that DFCS recommendations were considered and explain why it did not follow such recommendations. If the court rejects the DFCS case plan and permanency plan recommendations, including the change in the location of the placement of a child adjudicated as a dependent child, the court may order DFCS to devise a new case plan and permanency plan recommendation, including a new recommendation as to the location of such child within the resources of the department, or make any other order relative to placement or custody outside the department as the court finds to be in the best interests of such child and consistent with the policy that children in DFCS custody should have stable placements.
(h) If the court finds that the child has been living in a stable home environment with his or her current caregivers for the past 12 months and that removal of the child from such caregivers would be detrimental to the child's emotional well-being, the court may presume that continuation of the child's placement with his or her current caregivers is in the child's best interests and shall enter a finding that a change of placement is a failure by DFCS to make reasonable efforts to finalize the permanency plan which is in effect at the time of the hearing; provided, however, that such presumption shall not apply to prevent the return of the child to his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian.
(i) Placement or a change of legal custody by the court outside DFCS shall relieve DFCS of further responsibility for a child adjudicated as a dependent child except for any provision of services ordered by the court to ensure the continuation of reunification services to such child's family when appropriate.
(j) A placement change shall not include a temporary absence from the child's identified and ongoing foster care placement, including, but not limited to, visitation with a friend, sibling, relative, or other caretaker, including a preplacement visit to a possible foster or adoptive placement; hospitalization for medical, acute psychiatric episodes or diagnosis; respite care when the child is expected to return to his or her foster care placement; day or overnight camp; temporary travel with the foster family or child care institution personnel, church, school, or other persons or groups approved by DFCS; trial home visits with the court's permission, if required by subsection (b) of Code Section 15-11-212; and runaway episodes.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 138,§ 7, eff. 1/1/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 479,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 143,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 77,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
