# § 15-11-481. Victim impact statement in delinquency proceedings

(a) The victim of a child's alleged delinquent act shall be entitled to the same rights, notices, and benefits as the victim of a crime committed by an adult as set forth in Chapters 14, 15, 15A, and 17 of Title 17. The rights, notices, and benefits to a victim set forth in this article shall not be construed to deny or diminish the rights, notices, and benefits set forth in Chapters 14, 15, 15A, and 17 of Title 17.
(b) In any delinquency proceeding in which a petition has been filed, the prosecuting attorney shall notify any victim of a child's alleged delinquent act that the victim may submit a victim impact form as provided in Code Section 17-10-1.1.
(c) The provisions of subsection (e) of Code Section 17-10-1.1 shall apply to the use and disclosure of the victim impact form.
(d) Prior to the imposition of a dispositional order for a child adjudicated for a delinquent act, the juvenile court shall permit the victim, the family of the victim, or other witness with personal knowledge of the delinquent act to testify about the impact of the delinquent act on the victim, the victim's family, or the community. Except as provided in subsection (f) of this Code section, such evidence shall be given in the presence of the child adjudicated for a delinquent act and shall be subject to cross-examination.
(e) The admissibility of the evidence described in subsection (d) of this Code section shall be in the sole discretion of the judge and in any event shall be permitted only in such a manner and to such a degree as not to unduly prejudice the child adjudicated for a delinquent act. If the judge excludes evidence, the state shall be allowed to make an offer of proof.
(f) Upon a finding by the court specific to the case and the witness that the witness would not be able to testify in person without showing undue emotion or that testifying in person will cause the witness severe physical or emotional distress or trauma, evidence presented pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section may be in the form of, but not limited to, a written statement or a prerecorded audio or video statement, provided that such witness is subject to cross-examination. Photographs of the victim may be included with any evidence presented pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section.
(g) In presenting such evidence, the victim, the family of the victim, or other witness having personal knowledge of the impact of the delinquent act on the victim, the victim's family, or the community shall, if applicable:
  (1) Describe the nature of the delinquent act;
  (2) Itemize any economic loss suffered by the victim or the family of the victim, if restitution is sought;
  (3) Identify any physical injury suffered by the victim as a result of the delinquent act along with its seriousness and permanence;
  (4) Describe any change in the victim's personal welfare or familial relationships as a result of the delinquent act;
  (5) Identify any request for psychological services initiated by the victim or the victim's family as a result of the delinquent act; and
  (6) Include any other information related to the impact of the delinquent act upon the victim, the victim's family, or the community that the court inquires of.
(h) The court shall allow the child adjudicated for a delinquent act the opportunity to cross-examine and rebut the evidence presented of the victim's personal characteristics and the emotional impact of the delinquent act on the victim, the victim's family, or the community, and such cross-examination and rebuttal evidence shall be subject to the same discretion set forth in subsection (d) of this Code section.
(i) No disposition of a child adjudicated as delinquent shall be invalidated because of failure to comply with the provisions of this Code section. This Code section shall not be construed to create any cause of action or any right of appeal on behalf of the victim, the state, or such child; provided, however, that if the court intentionally fails to comply with this Code section, the victim may file a complaint with the Judicial Qualifications Commission.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 15, eff. 3/13/2015.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
