# § 15-11-130. Emergency care and supervision of child without court order; immunity

(a) Notwithstanding Code Sections 15-11-133 and 15-11-135, DFCS shall be authorized to provide emergency care and supervision to any child without seeking a court order for a period not to exceed seven days when:
  (1)
    (A) As a result of an emergency or illness, the person who has physical and legal custody of a child is unable to provide for the care and supervision of such child, and such person or a law enforcement officer, emergency personnel employed by a licensed ambulance provider, fire rescue personnel, or a hospital administrator or his or her designee requests that DFCS exercise such emergency custody; and
    (B) A child is not at imminent risk of abuse or neglect, other than the risks arising from being without a caretaker; or
  (2) The child is a victim of trafficking for labor or sexual servitude under Code Section 16-5-46.
(b) During the period when a child is in the temporary care and supervision of DFCS, DFCS shall endeavor to place such child with a relative of such child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian, in foster care, or in emergency foster care or shall make other appropriate placement arrangements. DFCS shall have the same rights and powers with regard to such child as does his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian including the right to consent to medical treatment.
(c) Immediately upon receiving custody of a child, DFCS shall begin a diligent search for a relative or other designee of a child's parent who can provide for the care and supervision of such child.
(d) At any time during such seven-day period, and upon notification to DFCS that a child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian or an expressly authorized relative, or designee thereof, is able to provide care to and exercise control over a child, DFCS shall release such child to the person having custody of such child at the time such child was taken into DFCS custody or to such person's authorized relative or designee.
(e) Upon the expiration of such seven-day period, if a child has not been released or if DFCS determines that there is an issue of neglect, abandonment, or abuse, DFCS shall promptly contact a juvenile court intake officer or bring such child before the juvenile court. If, upon making an investigation, the juvenile court intake officer finds that foster care is warranted for such child, then, for purposes of this chapter, such child shall be deemed to have been placed in foster care at the time such finding was made and DFCS may file a dependency petition.
(f) DFCS and its successors, agents, assigns, and employees shall be immune from any and all liability for providing care and supervision in accordance with this Code section, for consenting to medical treatment for a child, and for releasing a child.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 30,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
