# § 15-11-390. Filing of complaint

(a) A complaint alleging a child is a child in need of services may be made by any person, including a law enforcement officer, who has knowledge of the facts alleged or is informed and believes that such facts are true. A prosecuting attorney may file a complaint alleging a child is in need of services or intervene in such matter to represent the interest of the state as parens patriae.
(b) The complaint shall set forth plainly and with particularity:
  (1) The name, date of birth, and residence address of the child alleged to be a child in need of services;
  (2) The facts alleging why the court has jurisdiction of the complaint;
  (3) The reasons why the complaint is in the best interests of the child and the public;
  (4) The names and residence addresses of the parent, guardian, or legal custodian, any other family members, or any other individuals living within such child's home;
  (5) The name of any public institution or agency having the responsibility or ability to supply services alleged to be needed by such child; and
  (6) Whether any of the matters required by this subsection are unknown.
(c) When a school official is filing a complaint alleging a child is a child in need of services, information shall be included which shows that:
  (1) The legally liable school district has sought to resolve the expressed problem through available educational approaches; and
  (2) The school district has sought to engage the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of such child in solving the problem but such person has been unwilling or unable to do so, that the problem remains, and that court intervention is needed.
(d) When a school official is filing a complaint alleging a child is a child in need of services involving a child who is eligible or suspected to be eligible for services under the federal Individuals with Disabilities Education Act or Section 504 of the federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973, information shall be included which demonstrates that the legally liable school district:
  (1) Has determined that such child is eligible or suspected to be eligible under the federal Individuals with Disabilities Education Act or Section 504 of the federal Rehabilitation Act of 1973; and
  (2) Has reviewed for appropriateness such child's current Individualized Education Program (IEP) and placement and has made modifications where appropriate.
(e) The juvenile court intake officer shall be responsible for receiving complaints alleging that a child is a child in need of services.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 75,§ 2-1, eff. 5/5/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-24, eff. 4/28/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
