# § 15-11-233. Termination of parental rights; exceptions

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, DFCS shall file a petition to terminate the parental rights of a parent of a child adjudicated as a dependent child or, if such a petition has been filed by another party, seek to be joined as a party to the petition, and, concurrently, to identify, recruit, process, and approve a qualified family for an adoption if:
  (1) A child adjudicated as a dependent child has been in foster care under the responsibility of DFCS for 15 of the most recent 22 months;
  (2) The court has made a determination that the parent has subjected his or her child to aggravated circumstances; or
  (3) The court has made a determination that the parent of a child adjudicated as a dependent child has been convicted of:
    (A) The murder of another child of such parent;
    (B) Murder in the second degree of another child of such parent;
    (C) Voluntary manslaughter of another child of such parent;
    (D) Voluntary manslaughter of the other parent of such child;
    (E) Aiding or abetting, attempting, conspiring, or soliciting to commit murder or voluntary manslaughter of another child of such parent;
    (F) Aiding or abetting, attempting, conspiring, or soliciting to commit murder or voluntary manslaughter of the other parent of such child; or
    (G) Committing felony assault that has resulted in serious bodily injury to such child or to another child of such parent.
(b) Termination of parental rights may not be in the best interests of a child adjudicated as a dependent child when:
  (1) Such child is being cared for by his or her relative that intends to be a permanent placement for such child in accordance with a permanency plan approved by the court and in a time frame that is consistent with the developmental needs of such child;
  (2) The case plan documents a compelling reason for determining that filing such a petition would not be in the best interests of such child. Such compelling reasons may include, but not be limited to:
    (A) A parent of such child is successfully participating in services that will make it possible for his or her child to safely return home;
    (B) Another permanency plan is better suited to meet the health and safety needs of such child. Documentation that another permanent plan is better suited to meet the health and safety needs of such child may include documentation that:
      (i) Such child is 14 years of age or older and objects to termination of parental rights. Prior to accepting a child's objection, the court shall personally question such child in chambers to determine whether the objection is a voluntary and knowing choice;
      (ii) Such child is 16 years of age or older and specifically requests that emancipation be established as his or her permanent plan;
      (iii) The parent of such child and such child have a significant bond, but such parent is unable to care for such child because of an emotional or physical disability and such child's caregiver has committed to raising such child to the age of majority and facilitating visitation with such disabled parent; or
      (iv) Such child is in a residential treatment facility that provides services specifically designed to address his or her treatment needs and the court determines that his or her needs could not be served by a less restrictive placement;
    (C) Such child is living with his or her relative who is unable or unwilling to adopt such child, but who is willing and capable of providing such child with a stable and permanent home environment and the removal of such child from the physical custody of his or her relative would be detrimental to such child's emotional well-being;
    (D) The court or judicial citizen review panel, in a prior hearing or review, determined that while the case plan was to reunify the family, DFCS did not make reasonable efforts; or
    (E) Such child is an unaccompanied refugee or there are international legal obligations or foreign policy reasons that would preclude terminating parental rights; or
  (3) DFCS has not provided to the family of such child services deemed necessary for his or her safe return to his or her home, consistent with the specific time frames for the accomplishment of the case plan goals.
(c) The recommendation by DFCS that termination of parental rights is not in the best interests of a child shall be based on the present family circumstances of such child and shall not preclude a different recommendation at a later date if the family circumstances of a child adjudicated as a dependent child change.
(d) At least 30 days prior to the fifteenth month a child has been in foster care and when the court deems appropriate, the court shall review DFCS's determination that filing a petition to terminate parental rights would not be in the best interests of such child, as provided for in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section. Such hearing may be in conjunction with other matters of the case. At such hearing, the court may appoint an attorney guardian ad litem, who may, after his or her own determination, file a petition to terminate parental rights on behalf of the child. The court in its sole discretion may make any additional rulings.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 421,§ 4, eff. 4/22/2024, app. to all dependency and termination of parental rights cases currently pending, and all such cases later filed, in the juvenile court.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 577,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
