# § 15-11-65. Training requirements for juvenile court clerks

(a) Any person who is appointed as or is performing the duties of a clerk of the juvenile court shall satisfactorily complete 20 hours of training in the performance of the duties of a clerk of the juvenile court within the first 12 months following such appointment or the first performance of such duties.
(b) In each year after the initial appointment, any person who is appointed as or is performing the duties of a clerk of the juvenile court shall satisfactorily complete in that year 12 hours of additional training in the performance of such person's duties as clerk.
(c) Training pursuant to this Code section shall be provided by the Institute of Continuing Judicial Education of Georgia. Upon satisfactory completion of such training, a certificate issued by the institute shall be placed into the minutes of the juvenile court record in the county in which such person serves as a clerk of the juvenile court. All reasonable expenses of such training including, but not limited to, any tuition fixed by such institution shall be paid from county funds by the governing authority of the county for which the person serves as a clerk of the juvenile court, unless funding is provided from other sources.
(d) A judge of the juvenile court shall appoint a clerk pro tempore for that court in order for the regular clerk to attend required training. Such clerk pro tempore shall not be required to meet the training requirements for performing the clerk's duties.
(e) The provisions of this Code section shall not apply to clerks of juvenile courts who also act as clerks of superior courts and who already have mandatory training requirements in such capacity.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
