# § 15-11-220. Required findings after placement in qualified residential treatment program; documentation

(a) Within 60 days of the start of a child's placement in a qualified residential treatment program, the court must:
  (1) Consider the assessment required by Code Section 15-11-219 determination, and documentation made by the qualified individual in approving the placement;
  (2) Determine whether the needs of the child can be met through placement in a foster family home or, if not, whether placement of the child in a qualified residential treatment program provides the most effective and appropriate level of care for the child in the least restrictive environment;
  (3) Determine whether placement in a qualified residential treatment program is consistent with the short-term and long-term goals for the child, as specified in the permanency plan for the child;
  (4) Determine whether it is in the best interest of the child to be placed in a qualified residential treatment program and whether, for that reason, it is not in the best interest of the child or the child's siblings to be placed together; and
  (5) Approve or disapprove the qualified residential treatment program placement by entering written findings of fact on the record. Placement or a change of legal custody by the court outside DFCS shall relieve DFCS of further responsibility for a child adjudicated as a dependent child except for any provision of services ordered by the court to ensure the continuation of reunification services to such child's family when appropriate.
(b) Documentation of the determination and approval or disapproval of the placement in a qualified residential treatment program by the court shall be included in and made part of the case plan for the child.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 15, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 278,§ 5, eff. 5/7/2019.
