# § 15-11-608. Probation revocation; procedure

(a) An order granting probation to a child adjudicated for a delinquent act may be revoked on the ground that the conditions of probation have been violated.
(b) Any violation of a condition of probation may be reported to the prosecuting attorney who may file a motion in the court for revocation of probation. A motion for revocation of probation shall contain specific factual allegations constituting each violation of a condition of probation.
(c) The motion for revocation of probation shall be served upon the child serving the probated sentence, his or her attorney, and his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 15-11-531.
(d) If a child serving a probated sentence is taken into custody because of an alleged violation of probation, the provisions governing the detention of a child shall apply.
(e) A revocation hearing shall be scheduled to be held no later than 30 days after the filing of such motion or, if a child has been detained as a result of the filing of such motion for revocation, not later than ten days after the filing of the motion.
(f) If the court finds, beyond a reasonable doubt, that a child violated the terms and conditions of probation, the court may:
  (1) Extend probation;
  (2) Impose additional conditions of probation; or
  (3) Make any disposition that could have been made at the time probation was imposed.
(g) In the case of a class A designated felony act or class B designated felony act, if the court finds that a child violated the terms and conditions of probation, the court shall reconsider and make specific findings of fact as to each of the factors in subsection (b) of Code Section 15-11-602 to determine whether placement in restrictive custody.
(h) In the case of a class A designated felony act or class B designated felony act, if the court finds, beyond a reasonable doubt, that a child violated the terms and conditions of probation and revokes the order granting probation, the child shall be given credit for time served on probation and time served in preadjudication custody.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
