# § 15-11-601. Disposition of delinquent act

(a) At the conclusion of the disposition hearing, if a child who committed a delinquent act is determined to be in need of treatment or rehabilitation, then after considering the results of such child's risk assessment if the court is contemplating placing such child in restrictive custody, the court shall enter the least restrictive disposition order appropriate in view of the seriousness of the delinquent act, such child's culpability as indicated by the circumstances of the particular case, the age of such child, such child's prior record, and such child's strengths and needs. The court may make any of the following orders of disposition, or combination of them, best suited to such child's treatment, rehabilitation, and welfare:
  (1) Any order authorized for the disposition of a dependent child other than placement in the temporary custody of DFCS unless such child is also adjudicated as a dependent child in compliance with Code Section 15-11-12 for the dual designation of a child;
  (2) An order requiring such child and his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian to participate in counseling or in counsel and advice. Such counseling and counsel and advice may be provided by the court, court personnel, probation officers, community supervision officers, professional counselors or social workers, psychologists, physicians, physician assistants, qualified volunteers, or appropriate public, private, or volunteer agencies and shall be designed to assist in deterring future delinquent acts or other conduct or conditions which would be harmful to such child or society;
  (3) An order placing such child on probation under conditions and limitations the court prescribes and which may include the probation management program. The court may place such child on probation under the supervision of:
    (A) A probation officer of the court or the court of another state or a community supervision officer;
    (B) Any public agency authorized by law to receive and provide care for such child; or
    (C) Any community rehabilitation center if its chief executive officer has acknowledged in writing its willingness to accept the responsibility for the supervision of such child;
  (4) An order placing a child on unsupervised probation under conditions and limitations the court prescribes;
  (5) In any case in which such child who has not achieved a high school diploma or the equivalent is placed on probation, the court shall consider and may order as a condition of probation that he or she pursue a course of study designed to lead to achieving a high school diploma or the equivalent;
  (6) An order requiring that such child perform community service in a manner prescribed by the court and under the supervision of an individual designated by the court;
  (7) An order requiring that such child make restitution. In ordering a child to make restitution, the court shall follow the procedure set forth in Article 1 of Chapter 14 of Title 17. Such order may remain in force and effect simultaneously with another order of the court, including but not limited to an order of commitment to DJJ. However, no order of restitution shall be enforced while such child is at a secure residential facility or nonsecure residential facility unless the commissioner of juvenile justice certifies that a restitution program is available at such facility. Payment of funds shall be made by such child or his or her family or employer directly to the clerk of the juvenile court entering the order or to another employee of such court designated by the judge, and that court shall disburse such funds in the manner authorized in the order. While an order requiring restitution is in effect, the court may transfer enforcement of its order to:
    (A) DJJ;
    (B) The juvenile court of the county of such child's residence and its probation staff, if he or she changes his or her place of residence; or
    (C) The superior court once such child reaches 18 years of age as set forth in Code Section 17-14-5 if he or she thereafter comes under the jurisdiction of such court, and the court shall transfer enforcement of its order to superior court if the terms of such order are not completed when such child reaches 21 years of age;
  (8) An order requiring such child remit to the general fund of the county a sum not to exceed the maximum fine applicable to an adult for commission of any of the following offenses:
    (A) Any felony in the commission of which a motor vehicle is used;
    (B) Driving under the influence of alcohol or drugs;
    (C) Driving without proof of minimum required motor vehicle insurance;
    (D) Fraudulent or fictitious use of a driver's license;
    (E) Hit and run or leaving the scene of an accident;
    (F) Homicide by vehicle;
    (G) Manslaughter resulting from the operation of a motor vehicle;
    (H) Possession of controlled substances or marijuana;
    (I) Racing on highways or streets;
    (J) Using a motor vehicle in fleeing or attempting to elude an officer; or
    (K) Any violation of the provisions contained in Title 40 which is properly adjudicated as a delinquent act;
  (9) An order suspending such child's driver's license for a period not to exceed the date on which he or she reaches 18 years of age or, in the case of a child who does not have a driver's license, an order prohibiting the issuance of a driver's license to such child for a period not to exceed the date on which he or she reaches 18 years of age. The court shall retain the driver's license during such period of suspension and return it to such child at the end of such period. The court shall notify the Department of Driver Services of any actions taken pursuant to this paragraph;
  (10) An order placing such child in an institution, camp, or other facility for delinquent children operated under the direction of the court or other local public authority only if such child was adjudicated for a delinquent act involving:
    (A) An offense that would be a felony if committed by an adult; or
    (B) An offense that would be a misdemeanor if committed by an adult and such child has had at least one prior adjudication for an offense that would be a felony if committed by an adult and at least three other prior adjudications for a delinquent act as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (19) of Code Section 15-11-2;
  (11) With the same exceptions as set forth in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (10) of this subsection, an order committing such child to DJJ; or
  (12) Any order authorized under Code Section 15-11-29.1.
(b)
  (1) This subsection shall apply to cases involving:
    (A) An offense that would be a felony if committed by an adult; or
    (B) An offense that would be a misdemeanor if committed by an adult and such child has had at least one prior adjudication for an offense that would be a felony if committed by an adult and at least three other prior adjudications for a delinquent act as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (19) of Code Section 15-11-2.
  (2) In addition to any other treatment or rehabilitation, the court may order such child to serve up to a maximum of 30 days in a secure residential facility or, after a risk assessment and with the court's approval, in a treatment program provided by DJJ or the juvenile court.
(c) Any child ordered to a secure residential facility under subsection (b) of this Code section and detained after the adjudication hearing in a secure residential facility or nonsecure residential facility pending placement in a secure residential facility shall be given credit for time served in a secure residential facility or nonsecure residential facility awaiting placement.
(d) A child shall be given adequate information concerning the obligations and conditions imposed upon him or her by the disposition ordered by the court and the consequences of failure to meet such obligations and conditions. Such information shall be given in terms understandable to a child to enable such child to conform his or her conduct to the requirements of the disposition.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 246,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 227,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-15, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
