# § 15-11-52. Terms and compensation of judges

(a) Each appointed juvenile court judge shall serve for a term of four years.
(b) The compensation of the full-time or part-time juvenile court judges shall be set by the superior court with the approval of the governing authority or governing authorities of the county or counties for which the juvenile court judge is appointed.
(c) Out of funds appropriated to the judicial branch of government, the state shall contribute toward the salary of the judges on a per circuit basis in the following amounts:
  (1) Each circuit with one or more juvenile court judges who are not superior court judges assuming the duties of juvenile court judges shall receive a state grant of $100,000.00;
  (2) In addition to the amount set forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection, each circuit which has more than four superior court judges shall be eligible for additional state grants in the amount of $25,000.00 per superior court judgeship exceeding four judges in such circuit;
  (3) In circuits where the superior court judges elect to use the state grant for one or more part-time judges, the amount of the state grant shall be as follows; provided, however, that such grant shall not exceed the amount the circuit is eligible to receive under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection:
    (A) For each part-time judge who works one day weekly $20,000.00
    (B) For each part-time judge who works two days weekly 40,000.00
    (C) For each part-time judge who works three days weekly 60,000.00
    (D) For each part-time judge who works four days weekly 80,000.00; and
  (4) All state grants provided by this subsection shall be spent solely on salaries for juvenile court judges and shall not be used for any other purposes.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 38,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017 only if funds are appropriated for purposes of Part II of this Act in an appropriations Act enacted at the 2017 regular session of the General Assembly.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
