# § 15-11-202. Reasonable efforts by DFCS to preserve or reunify families

(a) Except as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 15-11-203, reasonable efforts shall be made to preserve or reunify families:
  (1) Prior to the placement of an alleged dependent child in DFCS custody to prevent the need for removing him or her from his or her home; or
  (2) To eliminate the need for removal and make it possible for a child alleged to be or adjudicated as a dependent child to return safely to his or her home at the earliest possible time.
(b) In determining the type of reasonable efforts to be made to a child alleged to be or adjudicated as a dependent child and in making such reasonable efforts, such child's health and safety shall be the paramount concern.
(c) Appropriate services to meet the needs of a child alleged to be or adjudicated as a dependent child and his or her family may include those provided by DFCS and other services available in the community.
(d) The court shall be required to review the appropriateness of DFCS's reasonable efforts at each stage of the proceedings.
(e)
  (1) At the preliminary protective hearing, DFCS has the burden of demonstrating that:
    (A) It has made reasonable efforts to prevent placement of an alleged dependent child in foster care;
    (B) There are no appropriate services or efforts which could allow an alleged dependent child to safely remain in the home given the particular circumstances of such child and his or her family at the time of his or her removal and so the absence of such efforts was justifiable; or
    (C) Reasonable efforts to prevent placement and to reunify an alleged dependent child with his or her family are not required because of the existence of one or more of the circumstances enumerated in subsection (a) of Code Section 15-11-203.
  (2) At the adjudication hearing, DFCS has the burden of demonstrating that:
    (A) It has made reasonable efforts to eliminate the need for removal of an alleged dependent child from his or her home and to reunify such child with his or her family at the earliest possible time; or
    (B) Reasonable efforts to prevent placement and to reunify an alleged dependent child with his or her family are not required because of the existence of one or more of the circumstances enumerated in subsection (a) of Code Section 15-11-203.
  (3) At each other hearing, DFCS has the burden of demonstrating that:
    (A) It has made reasonable efforts to eliminate the need for removal of a child alleged to be or adjudicated as a dependent child from his or her home and to reunify such child with his or her family at the earliest possible time; or
    (B) It has made reasonable efforts to finalize an alternative permanent home for a child alleged to be or adjudicated as a dependent child.
(f)
  (1) When determining whether reasonable efforts have been made, the court shall consider whether services to the child alleged to be or adjudicated as a dependent child and his or her family were:
    (A) Relevant to the safety and protection of such child;
    (B) Adequate to meet the needs of such child and his or her family;
    (C) Culturally and linguistically appropriate;
    (D) Available and accessible;
    (E) Consistent and timely; and
    (F) Realistic under the circumstances.
  (2) In determining whether reasonable efforts have been made to finalize an alternative permanent home for a child adjudicated dependent, the court shall also consider whether DFCS has completed the diligent search required by subsection (e) of Code Section 15-11-211 and has provided notice to persons identified in such diligent search as required by subsection (c) of Code Section 15-11-211.
(g) A finding that reasonable efforts have not been made shall not preclude the entry of an order authorizing a child alleged to be or adjudicated as a dependent child's placement when the court finds that placement is necessary for the protection of such child.
(h) When efforts to prevent the need for a child alleged to be or adjudicated as a dependent child's placement were precluded by an immediate threat of harm to such child, the court may make a finding that reasonable efforts were made if it finds that the placement of such child in the absence of such efforts was justifiable.
(i) Reasonable efforts to place a child adjudicated as a dependent child for adoption or with a guardian or legal custodian may be made concurrently with reasonable efforts to reunify. When DFCS decides to concurrently make reasonable efforts for both reunification and permanent placement away from the parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a child adjudicated as a dependent child, DFCS shall disclose its decision and both plans to all parties and obtain approval from the court. When DFCS proceeds on both plans, the court's review of reasonable efforts shall include efforts under both plans.
(j) An order placing or continuing the placement of a child alleged to be or adjudicated as a dependent child in DFCS custody shall contain, but not be limited to, written findings of facts stating:
  (1) That such child's continuation in or return to his or her home would be contrary to his or her welfare;
  (2) Whether reasonable efforts have been made to prevent or eliminate the need for placement of such child, unless the court has determined that such efforts are not required or shall cease; and
  (3) Whether reasonable efforts should continue to be made to prevent or eliminate the need for placement of such child, unless the court has previously determined that such efforts are not required or shall cease.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 143,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
