# § 15-11-451. Hearing on mental health plan; time limitations

(a) The court shall hold a comprehensive services plan hearing within 30 days after the comprehensive services plan has been submitted to the court for the purpose of approving the plan. Thereafter, the court shall hold a comprehensive services plan hearing every six months for the purpose of reviewing such child's condition and approving the comprehensive services plan.
(b) The persons required to be notified of a comprehensive services plan hearing and witnesses identified by a plan manager shall be given at least ten days' prior notice of the hearing and any subsequent hearing to review such child's condition and shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard at any such hearing. The victim, if any, of a child's alleged delinquent act shall also be provided with the same ten days' prior notice and shall be afforded an opportunity to be heard and to present a victim impact form as provided in Code Section 17-10-1.1 to the court at the comprehensive services plan hearing. The judge shall make a determination regarding sequestration of witnesses in order to protect the privileges and confidentiality rights of a child adjudicated to be unrestorably incompetent to proceed under Article 7 of this chapter.
(c) At the comprehensive services plan hearing, the court shall enter an order incorporating a comprehensive services plan as part of the disposition of the comprehensive services plan hearing. At the time of the disposition, a child shall be placed in an appropriate treatment setting, as recommended by the examiner, unless such child has already been placed in an appropriate treatment setting pursuant to subsection (d) of Code Section 15-11-656.
(d) If, during the comprehensive services plan hearing or any subsequent review hearing, the court determines that a child is mentally ill or developmentally disabled and meets the requirements for civil commitment pursuant to Chapters 3 and 4 of Title 37, such child may be committed to an appropriate treatment setting.
(e) At any time, in the event of a change in circumstances regarding such child, the court on its own motion or on the motion of the attorney representing such child, any guardian ad litem for such child, the person who filed the petition alleging that a child is in need of services or committed a delinquent act, the prosecuting attorney, or the plan manager may set a hearing for review of the comprehensive services plan and any proposed amendments to such plan. The court may issue an appropriate order incorporating an amended plan.
(f) If a child is under a comprehensive services plan when he or she reaches the age of 18, the plan manager shall make a referral for appropriate adult services.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 75,§ 2-7, eff. 5/5/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-38, eff. 4/28/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
