# § 15-11-472. Delinquency case time limitations

(a) A detention hearing shall be held promptly and no later than:
  (1) Two business days after an alleged delinquent child is placed in preadjudication custody if he or she is taken into custody without an arrest warrant; or
  (2) Five business days after an alleged delinquent child is placed in preadjudication custody if he or she is taken into custody pursuant to an arrest warrant.
(b) If an alleged delinquent child is placed in preadjudication custody without an arrest warrant and the detention hearing cannot be held within 48 hours because the expiration of the 48 hours falls on a weekend or legal holiday, the court shall review the detention assessment and the decision to detain such child and make a finding based on probable cause within 48 hours of such child being placed in preadjudication custody.
(c) If an alleged delinquent child is released from preadjudication custody at the detention hearing or was never taken into custody, the following time frames shall apply:
  (1) Any petition alleging delinquency shall be filed within 30 days of the filing of the complaint or within 30 days after such child is released from preadjudication custody. If a complaint was not filed, the complaint shall be filed within the statute of limitations as provided by Chapter 3 of Title 17;
  (2) Summons shall be served at least 72 hours before the adjudication hearing;
  (3) The arraignment hearing shall be scheduled no later than 30 days after the filing of the petition alleging delinquency;
  (4) The adjudication hearing shall be held no later than 60 days from the filing of the petition alleging delinquency unless a continuance is granted as provided in Code Section 15-11-478; and
  (5) The disposition hearing shall be held within 30 days of the adjudication hearing unless the court makes written findings of fact explaining the delay.
(d) If an alleged delinquent child is not released from preadjudication custody at the detention hearing, the following time frames shall apply:
  (1) The petition alleging delinquency shall be filed within 72 hours of the detention hearing;
  (2) Summons shall be served at least 72 hours before the adjudication hearing;
  (3) The adjudication hearing shall be held no later than ten days after the filing of the petition alleging delinquency unless a continuance is granted as provided in Code Section 15-11-478; and
  (4) The disposition hearing shall be held within 30 days of the adjudication hearing unless the court makes written findings of fact explaining the delay.
(e) For purposes of this Code section, preadjudication custody begins when a juvenile court intake officer authorizes the placement of a child in a secure residential facility.
(f) A child who is released from detention but subject to conditions of release shall not be considered to be in detention for purposes of calculating time frames set forth in this article or for purposes of calculating time served.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
