# § 15-11-562. Transfer criteria; written report

(a) The criteria that the juvenile court shall consider in determining whether to transfer an alleged delinquent child as set forth in subsection (a) of Code Section 15-11-561 to superior court and the criteria that the superior court shall consider in determining whether to transfer any case involving a child 13 to 17 years of age alleged to have committed any act described in paragraph (3), (5), (6), (7), (9), or (10) of subsection (b) of Code Section 15-11-560 to juvenile court as set forth in subsection (e) of Code Section 15-11-560 includes, but shall not be limited to:
  (1) The age of such child;
  (2) The seriousness of the alleged offense, especially if personal injury resulted;
  (3) Whether the protection of the community requires transfer of jurisdiction;
  (4) Whether the alleged offense involved violence or was committed in an aggressive or premeditated manner;
  (5) The impact of the alleged offense on the alleged victim, including the permanence of any physical or emotional injury sustained, health care expenses incurred, and lost earnings suffered;
  (6) The culpability of such child including such child's level of planning and participation in the alleged offense;
  (7) Whether the alleged offense is a part of a repetitive pattern of offenses which indicates that such child may be beyond rehabilitation in the juvenile justice system;
  (8) The record and history of such child, including experience with the juvenile justice system, other courts, supervision, commitments to juvenile institutions, and other placements;
  (9) The sophistication and maturity of such child as determined by consideration of his or her home and environmental situation, emotional condition, and pattern of living;
  (10) The program and facilities available to the juvenile court in considering disposition; and
  (11) Whether or not a child can benefit from the treatment or rehabilitative programs available to the juvenile court.
(b) A probation officer, or community supervision officer, as applicable, shall prepare a written report developing fully all available information relevant to the transfer criteria. Such officer shall submit such report to the parties and the court as soon as practicable but not later than 24 hours before the scheduled hearing. The child subject to transfer and the prosecuting attorney shall have the right to review such report and cross-examine the individual making such report.
(c) The court may order a transfer evaluation of a child's clinical status as it may impact the criteria in subsection (a) of this Code section. Statements made by a child in a transfer evaluation shall only be admissible into evidence in an adjudication hearing or in a criminal proceeding as provided by Code Sections 15-11-479 and 15-11-563.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 198,§ 2-4, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-14, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 75,§ 1-14, eff. 5/5/2015.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
