# § 15-11-425. Sanctions for failure to obey summons

(a) In the event a parent, guardian, or legal custodian of a child alleged to be a child in need of services willfully fails to appear personally at a hearing on the petition seeking an adjudication that a child is a child in need of services after being ordered to so appear or such parent, guardian, or legal custodian willfully fails to bring such child to such hearing after being so directed, the court may issue a rule nisi against the person directing the person to appear before the court to show cause why he or she should not be held in contempt of court.
(b) If a parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the child alleged to be a child in need of services fails to appear in response to an order to show cause, the court may issue a bench warrant directing that such parent, guardian, or legal custodian be brought before the court without delay to show cause why he or she should not be held in contempt and the court may enter any order authorized by the provisions of Code Section 15-11-31.
(c) In the event an agency representative willfully fails to appear at a hearing on the petition seeking an adjudication that a child is a child in need of services after being ordered to so appear, the court may direct the appropriate agency representative to appear before the court to show cause why a contempt order should not be issued.
(d) If a child 16 years of age or older fails to appear at a hearing on a petition seeking an adjudication that such child is a child in need of services after being ordered to so appear, the court may issue a bench warrant requiring that such child be brought before the court without delay and the court may enter any order authorized by the provisions of Code Section 15-11-31.
(e) If there is sworn testimony that a child 14 years of age but not yet 16 years of age willfully refuses to appear at a hearing on a petition seeking an adjudication that such child is a child in need of services after being ordered to so appear, the court may issue a bench warrant requiring that such child be brought before the court and the court may enter any order authorized by the provisions of Code Section 15-11-31.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
