# § 15-11-747. Child advocate advisory committee; membership; role of committee

(a) There is established a Child Advocate Advisory Committee. The advisory committee shall consist of:
  (1) One representative of a not for profit children's agency appointed by the Governor;
  (2) One representative of a for profit children's agency appointed by the Lieutenant Governor;
  (3) One pediatrician appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
  (4) One social worker with experience and knowledge of child protective services who is not employed by the state appointed by the Governor;
  (5) One psychologist appointed by the Lieutenant Governor;
  (6) One attorney from the Children and the Courts Committee of the State Bar of Georgia appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
  (7) One current or former foster parent appointed by the Governor;
  (8) One former foster child who attained the age of majority or graduated from high school while still in the Georgia foster care system appointed by the Lieutenant Governor;
  (9) One individual who has served for at least three years as a court appointed special advocate (CASA) appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and
  (10) One juvenile court judge appointed by the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court. Each member of the advisory committee shall serve a two-year term and until the appointment and qualification of such member's successor. Appointments to fill vacancies in such offices shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
(b) The advisory committee shall meet a minimum of three times a year with the advocate and his or her staff to review and assess the following:
  (1) Patterns of treatment and service for children;
  (2) Policy implications; and
  (3) Necessary systemic improvements. The advisory committee shall also provide for an annual evaluation of the effectiveness of the Office of the Child Advocate for the Protection of Children.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 136,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
