# § 15-11-603. Disposition of child adjudged to have committed delinquent act constituting AIDS transmitting crime; HIV testing; reports

(a) As part of any order of disposition regarding a child adjudged to have committed a delinquent act constituting an AIDS transmitting crime, the court may in its discretion and after conferring with the director of the health district, order that such child submit to an HIV test within 45 days following the adjudication of delinquency. The court shall mail DJJ a copy of the order within three days following its issuance.
(b) Within 30 days following receipt of the copy of the order, DJJ shall arrange for the HIV test for such child.
(c) Any child placed in the custody and control of DJJ shall be HIV tested in accordance with DJJ's policies and procedures.
(d) If a child is determined to be infected with HIV, that determination and the name of the child shall be deemed to be AIDS confidential information and shall only be reported to:
  (1) DJJ or the Department of Corrections, as the case may be, and the Department of Public Health, which may disclose the name of such child if necessary to provide counseling and which shall provide counseling to each victim of the AIDS transmitting crime or to any parent, guardian, or legal custodian of any victim who is a minor or incompetent person if DJJ or the Department of Corrections believes the crime posed a reasonable risk of transmitting HIV to the victim. Counseling shall include providing the person with information and explanations medically appropriate for such person which may include all or part of the following: accurate information regarding AIDS and HIV; an explanation of behaviors that reduce the risk of transmitting AIDS and HIV; an explanation of the confidentiality of information relating to AIDS diagnoses and HIV tests; an explanation of information regarding both social and medical implications of HIV tests; and disclosure of commonly recognized treatment or treatments for AIDS and HIV;
  (2) The court which ordered the HIV test; and
  (3) Those persons in charge of any facility to which such child has been confined by order of the court. In addition to any other restrictions regarding the confinement of a child, a child determined to be an HIV infected person may be confined separately from any other children in that facility other than those who have been determined to be infected with HIV if:
    (A) That child is reasonably believed to be sexually active while confined;
    (B) That child is reasonably believed to be sexually predatory either during or prior to detention; or
    (C) The commissioner of juvenile justice reasonably determines that other circumstances or conditions exist which indicate that separate confinement would be warranted.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
