# § 15-11-161. Service of summons

(a) If a party to be served with a summons is within this state and can be found, the summons shall be served upon him or her personally as soon as possible and at least 72 hours before the adjudication hearing.
(b) If a party to be served is within this state and cannot be found but his or her address is known or can be ascertained with due diligence, the summons shall be served upon such party at least five days before the adjudication hearing by mailing him or her a copy by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested.
(c) If a party to be served is outside this state but his or her address is known or can be ascertained with due diligence, service of the summons shall be made at least five days before the adjudication hearing either by delivering a copy to such party personally or by mailing a copy to him or her by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested.
(d) If, after due diligence, a party to be served with a summons cannot be found and such party's address cannot be ascertained, whether he or she is within or outside this state, the court may order service of the summons upon him or her by publication. The adjudication hearing shall not be earlier than five days after the date of the last publication.
(e)
  (1) Service by publication shall be made once a week for four consecutive weeks in the official organ of the county where the petition alleging dependency has been filed. Service shall be deemed complete upon the date of the last publication.
  (2) When served by publication, the notice shall contain the names of the parties, except that the anonymity of a child shall be preserved by the use of appropriate initials, and the date the petition alleging dependency was filed. The notice shall indicate the general nature of the allegations and where a copy of the petition alleging dependency can be obtained and require the party to be served by publication to appear before the court at the time fixed to answer the allegations of the petition alleging dependency.
  (3) Within 15 days after the filing of the order of service by publication, the clerk of court shall mail a copy of the notice, a copy of the order of service by publication, and a copy of the petition alleging dependency to the last known address of the party being served by publication.
(f) Service of the summons may be made by any suitable person under the direction of the court.
(g) The court may authorize the payment from county funds of the costs of service and of necessary travel expenses incurred by persons summoned or otherwise required to appear at the hearing.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
