# § 15-11-702. Children's fingerprints, photographs, and names

(a)
  (1) Every child charged with an offense that would be a felony if committed by an adult shall be fingerprinted and photographed upon being taken into custody.
  (2) Fingerprints and photographs of children to be used in investigating the commission of crimes shall be taken and filed separately from those of adults by law enforcement officials and shall be made available as provided in this article and as may be directed by the court.
(b) Fingerprint files and photographs of children may be inspected by law enforcement officers when necessary for criminal justice purposes and for the discharge of their official duties. Other inspections may be authorized by the court in individual cases upon a showing that it is necessary in the public interest.
(c) If a child has been charged with an offense that if committed by an adult would be a felony or if the case is transferred to another court for prosecution, such child's identification data, and other pertinent information shall be forwarded to the Georgia Crime Information Center of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. The center shall create a juvenile fingerprint file and enter the data into the computerized criminal history files. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall act as the official state repository for juvenile history data and shall be authorized to disseminate such data for the purposes specified in Code Section 15-11-708.
(d) Upon application of a child, fingerprints and photographs of such child shall be removed from the file and destroyed if a petition alleging delinquency is not filed or the proceedings are dismissed after either such petition is filed or the case is transferred to the juvenile court or the child is adjudicated not to be a delinquent child. The court shall notify the deputy director of the Georgia Crime Information Center when fingerprints and photographs are destroyed, and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall treat such records in the same manner as criminal history record information is restricted pursuant to Code Section 35-3-37.
(e) Except as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, without the consent of the judge, a child shall not be photographed after he or she is taken into custody unless the case is transferred to another court for prosecution.
(f) Upon request, the judge or his or her designee shall release the name of any child with regard to whom a petition has been filed alleging a child committed a class A designated felony act or class B designated felony act or alleging a child committed a delinquent act if such child has previously been adjudicated for committing a delinquent act or if such child has previously been before the court on a delinquency charge and adjudication was withheld.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
