# § 15-11-508. Notification to victim of child's release from detention

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Notice" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 17-17-3.
  (2) "Victim" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 17-17-3.
  (3) "Violent delinquent act" means to commit, attempt to commit, conspiracy to commit, or solicitation of another to commit a delinquent act which if committed by an adult would constitute:
    (A) A serious violent felony as defined by Code Section 17-10-6.1;
    (B) A class A designated felony act or class B designated felony act;
    (C) Stalking or aggravated stalking as provided by Article 7 of Chapter 5 of Title 16; or
    (D) Any attempt to commit, conspiracy to commit, or solicitation of another to commit an offense enumerated in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of this paragraph.
(b) If a child accused of a violent delinquent act is detained pending adjudication, a juvenile court intake officer shall provide notice to the victim, whenever practicable, that such child is to be released from detention not less than 24 hours prior to such child's release from detention.
(c) Not less than 48 hours prior to a child who has been adjudicated to have committed a violent delinquent act being released from detention or transferred to a nonsecure residential facility, a juvenile court intake officer shall, whenever practicable, provide notice to the victim of such pending release or transfer.
(d) Victim notification need not be given unless a victim has expressed a desire for such notification and has provided a juvenile court intake officer with a current address and telephone number. It shall be the duty of a juvenile court intake officer to advise the victim of his or her right to notification and of the requirement of the victim to provide a primary and personal telephone number to which such notification shall be directed.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
