# § 15-11-14. Transfers from probate court

(a) The court shall hold a hearing within 30 days of receipt of a case transferred from the probate court pursuant to subsection (f) of Code Section 29-2-6 or subsection (b) of Code Section 29-2-8. A child may obtain a court appointed attorney for the hearing to determine whether continuation or termination of the temporary guardianship is in the best interests of the child.
(b) After notice and hearing, the court may make one of the following orders:
  (1) That the temporary guardianship be established or continued if the court determines that the temporary guardianship is in the best interests of a child. The order shall thereafter be subject to modification only as provided in Code Section 15-11-32; or
  (2) That the temporary guardianship be terminated if the court determines it is in the best interests of a child. A child shall be returned to his or her parent unless the court determines that there is probable cause to believe that he or she will be abused, neglected, or abandoned in the custody of his or her parent.
(c) A case shall proceed as a dependency matter pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter if, after notice and hearing, the court determines:
  (1) That it is in the best interests of a child that the temporary guardianship not be established or that the temporary guardianship be terminated but there is probable cause to believe that he or she will be abused, neglected, or abandoned if returned to his or her parent; or
  (2) That it is in the best interests of a child that the temporary guardianship be continued over the parent's objection.
(d) The court may refer to DFCS for further investigation a case transferred from probate court.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 67,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
