# § 15-11-203. When reasonable efforts by DFCS not required

(a) The court may direct that reasonable efforts to eliminate the need for placement of an alleged dependent child shall not be required or shall cease if the court determines and makes written findings of fact that a parent of an alleged dependent child:
  (1) Has subjected his or her child to aggravated circumstances;
  (2) Has been convicted of the murder or murder in the second degree of another child of such parent;
  (3) Has been convicted of the voluntary manslaughter of another child of such parent;
  (4) Has been convicted of aiding or abetting, attempting, conspiring, or soliciting to commit murder or voluntary manslaughter of another child of such parent;
  (5) Has been convicted of committing a felony assault that results in serious bodily injury to the child or another child of such parent;
  (6) Has been convicted of rape, sodomy, aggravated sodomy, child molestation, aggravated child molestation, incest, sexual battery, or aggravated sexual battery of the alleged dependent child or another child of the parent;
  (7) Is required to register as a sex offender and that preservation of a parent-child relationship is not in the alleged dependent child's best interests; or
  (8) Has had his or her rights to a sibling of the alleged dependent child terminated involuntarily and the circumstances leading to such termination of parental rights to that sibling have not been resolved.
(b) If the court determines that one or more of the circumstances enumerated in subsection (a) of this Code section exist or DFCS has submitted a written report to the court which does not contain a plan for reunification services, then:
  (1) A permanency plan hearing shall be held for a child adjudicated as a dependent child within 30 days; and
  (2) Reasonable efforts shall be made to place a child adjudicated as a dependent child in a timely manner in accordance with the permanency plan and to complete whatever steps are necessary to finalize the permanent placement of such child.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 577,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
