# § 15-11-36. Expenses charged to county; payment by parent on court order

(a) The following expenses shall be a charge upon the funds of the county upon certification thereof by the court:
  (1) The cost of medical and other examinations and treatment of a child ordered by the court;
  (2) The cost of care and support of a child committed by the court to the legal custody of an individual or a public or private agency other than DJJ, but the court may order supplemental payments, if such are necessary or desirable for services;
  (3) Reasonable compensation for services and related expenses of an attorney appointed by the court, when appointed by the court to represent a child and when appointed by the court to conduct the proceedings;
  (4) Reasonable compensation for a guardian ad litem;
  (5) The expense of service of summons, notices, and subpoenas; travel expenses of witnesses; transportation, subsistence, and detention of a child for juvenile court proceedings or superior court proceedings when a child is prosecuted in superior court pursuant to Code Section 15-11-560; and other like expenses incurred in the proceedings under this chapter; and
  (6) The cost of counseling and counsel and advice required or provided under the provisions of Code Section 15-11-212 or 15-11-601.
(b) The court shall determine whether the expenses shall be a charge upon the funds of the county and certify such expenses to the county governing authority within 120 days from the date such expenses were submitted to the court for certification. If the court has not made such certification within 120 days, the court shall be deemed to have denied certification.
(c) If, after due notice to the parent or other person legally obligated to care for and support a child and after affording such person an opportunity to be heard, the court finds that such person is financially able to pay all or part of the costs and expenses outlined in subsection (a) of this Code section, the court may order such person to pay the same and prescribe the manner of payment. In addition, the court may order payment from a child's parent or other legally obligated person or entity to reimburse all or part of the costs and expenses of the department or DJJ for treatment, care, and support of a child. Unless otherwise ordered, payment shall be made to the clerk of the court for remittance to the person or agency, including the department or DJJ, to whom compensation is due or, if the costs and expenses have been paid by the county, to the appropriate officer of the county.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
