# § 15-11-590. Predisposition investigation and report

(a) After an adjudication that a child has committed a delinquent act, the court may direct that a written predisposition investigation report be prepared by the probation officer or other person designated by the court.
(b) A predisposition investigation report shall contain such information about the characteristics, family, environment, and the circumstances affecting the child who is the subject of the report as the court determines may be helpful in its determination of the need for treatment or rehabilitation and a proper disposition of the case, including but not limited to:
  (1) A summary of the facts of the conduct of such child that led to the adjudication;
  (2) The sophistication and maturity of such child;
  (3) A summary of such child's home environment, family relationships, and background;
  (4) A summary of such child's prior contacts with the juvenile court and law enforcement agencies, including the disposition following each contact and the reasons therefor;
  (5) A summary of such child's educational status, including, but not limited to, his or her strengths, abilities, and special educational needs. The report shall identify appropriate educational and vocational goals for such child. Examples of appropriate goals include:
    (A) Attainment of a high school diploma or its equivalent;
    (B) Successful completion of literacy courses;
    (C) Successful completion of vocational courses;
    (D) Successful attendance and completion of such child's current grade if enrolled in school; or
    (E) Enrollment in an apprenticeship or a similar program;
  (6) A summary of the results and recommendations of any of such child's significant physical and mental examinations;
  (7) The seriousness of the offense to the community;
  (8) The nature of the offense; and
  (9) Whether the offense was against persons or against property.
(c) If the court has ordered a child's physical or mental examination to be conducted, the report shall include a copy of the results of the examination.
(d) If the court has ordered a risk assessment for a child, that assessment shall be included in the predisposition investigation report.
(e) All information shall be presented in a concise and factual manner. The report shall indicate the sources of information in the report.
(f) The original report and any other material to be disclosed shall be furnished to the court, and copies shall be furnished to the attorney for the child who is the subject of such report and to the prosecuting attorney at least five days prior to the disposition hearing.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
