# § 15-11-410. Taking a child into temporary custody

(a) A child may be taken into temporary custody under this article:
  (1) Pursuant to a court order; or
  (2) By a law enforcement officer when there are reasonable grounds to believe that a child has run away from his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian or the circumstances are such as to endanger a child's health or welfare unless immediate action is taken.
(b) Before entering an order authorizing temporary custody, the court shall consider the results of a detention assessment and determine whether continuation in the home is contrary to a child's welfare and whether there are available services that would prevent the need for custody. The court shall make such determination on a case-by-case basis and shall make written findings of fact referencing any and all evidence relied upon in reaching its decision.
(c) A person taking a child into temporary custody shall deliver such child, with all reasonable speed and without first taking such child elsewhere, to a medical facility if he or she is believed to suffer from a serious physical condition or illness which requires prompt treatment and, upon delivery, shall promptly contact a juvenile court intake officer.
(d) As soon as a juvenile court intake officer is notified that a child has been taken into temporary custody, such juvenile court intake officer shall administer a detention assessment and determine if such child should be released, remain in temporary custody, or be brought before the court.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-27, eff. 4/28/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
