# § 15-11-38. Community based risk reduction programs

(a) Any court may order the establishment of a community based risk reduction program, within the geographical jurisdiction of the court, for the purpose of utilizing available community resources in assessment and intervention in cases of delinquency, dependency, or children in need of services so long as the court determines that sufficient funds are available for such programs. Subject to the procedures, requirements, and supervision established in the order creating such program, any individual and any public or private agency or entity may participate in the program.
(b) As part of a risk reduction program, a court may implement or adopt an early intervention program designed to identify children and families who are at risk of becoming involved with the court. Such early intervention program shall be for the purpose of developing and implementing intervention actions or plans to divert the children and their families from becoming involved in future cases in the court. The court's involvement shall be for the limited purpose of facilitating the development of the program and for the purpose of protecting the confidentiality of the children and families participating in the program.
(c) As part of an early intervention program, the court may enter into protocol agreements with school systems within the court's jurisdiction, the county division of family and children services, the county department of health, DJJ, any state or local department or agency, any mental health agency or institution, local physicians or health care providers, licensed counselors and social workers, and any other social service, charitable, or other entity or any other agency or individual providing educational or treatment services to families and children within the jurisdiction of the court. Such protocol agreements shall authorize the exchange of confidential information in the same manner and subject to the same restrictions, conditions, and penalties as provided in Code Section 15-11-40.
(d) When any agency or entity participating in a protocol agreement identifies a child who is at risk of becoming a delinquent child, dependent child, or child in need of services, the agency or entity shall refer the case to a multiagency staffing panel. The panel shall develop a multiagency intervention plan for such child. Such child or his or her parent, or both, may be present during any review of such child's case by the panel. A child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian shall be notified of the intervention plan by the agency making the referral or by a person or entity designated by the panel to administer the program. The staff of the court, other than the judge, shall work with the other agencies involved to educate a child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian and such child on the importance of following the intervention plan and on the consequences if anyone is referred to the court. If an intervention plan is developed for a child and his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian consents to such plan, the failure to comply with the plan or any portion thereof may constitute the basis for a referral to DFCS.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-6, eff. 4/28/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
