# § 15-11-605. Probation management programs or secure probation sanctions programs; violations of probation programs

(a) In addition to any other terms or conditions of probation provided for under this article, the court may require that children who receive a disposition of probation:
  (1) Be ordered to a probation management program; or
  (2) Be ordered to a secure probation sanctions program by a probation officer or hearing officer.
(b) When a child has been ordered to a probation management program or secure probation sanctions program, the court shall retain jurisdiction throughout the period of the probated sentence and may modify or revoke any part of a probated sentence as provided in Code Section 15-11-32.
(c)
  (1) DJJ in jurisdictions where DJJ is authorized to provide probation supervision or the county juvenile probation office in jurisdictions where probation supervision is provided directly by the county, as applicable, shall be authorized to establish rules and regulations for graduated sanctions as an alternative to judicial modifications or revocations for probationers who violate the terms and conditions of a probation management program.
  (2) DJJ or the county juvenile probation office, as applicable, shall not sanction probationers for violations of conditions of probation if the court has expressed an intention in a written order that such violations be heard by the court.
(d) DJJ or the county juvenile probation office, as applicable, shall impose only those restrictions equal to or less restrictive than the maximum sanction established by the court.
(e) The secure probation sanctions program shall be established by DJJ. Exclusion of a child from a secure probation sanctions program otherwise authorized by this Code section to enter such program shall be mutually agreed upon by the Council of Juvenile Court Judges and DJJ. The secure probation sanctions program shall be available to the juvenile courts to the extent that each secure facility has capacity for such offenders within its facilities. Prior to reaching full capacity, DJJ shall inform the various juvenile courts of its capacity constraints.
(f)
  (1) When requesting the secure probation sanctions program, probation officers supervising a child under a probation management program shall provide an affidavit to the court specifying:
    (A) The elements of such child's probation program;
    (B) Such child's failures to respond to graduated sanctions in the community; and
    (C) Such child's number of violations and the nature of each violation.
  (2) If a probation officer fails to document the violations and specify how a child has failed to complete a probation management program, such child shall be ineligible to enter the secure probation sanctions program.
  (3) A child may enter the secure probation sanctions program if ordered by the court and:
    (A) The probation officer has complied with the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection and the criteria set by the department for entrance into such program and such child has had three or more violations of probation; or
    (B) A child in a probation management program and his or her parent or guardian, or a child in such program and his or her attorney, admit to three or more violations of such program and sign a waiver accepting the sanction proposed by the probation officer.
  (4) Each new violation of a condition of a probated sentence may result in a child being sentenced to the secure probation sanctions program; provided, however, that if a child is sentenced to the secure probation sanctions program and completes all program components in the seven, 14, and 30 day programs, such child shall be ineligible to attend the secure probation sanctions program for a future violation of a condition of the same probated sentence.
(g)
  (1) When a violation of a condition of probation occurs, a child may have an administrative hearing conducted by a hearing officer. If the hearing officer determines by a preponderance of the evidence that such child violated the conditions of probation, the probation officer shall be authorized to impose graduated sanctions. A child's failure to comply with a sanction imposed under this paragraph shall constitute another violation of probation.
  (2) A hearing officer's decision shall be final unless such child files, within five days of the service of such decision, a written demand with the hearing officer who conducted the administrative hearing for review of such decision. Such demand shall not stay the sanction decision. Such hearing officer shall issue a response to such demand within five days of receiving such demand.
  (3) If such hearing officer insists on the sanction, his or her decision shall be final unless the child subject to the sanction files an appeal in the court that originally adjudicated such child. Such appeal shall be filed within ten days of the date of the decision of the hearing officer.
  (4) The appeal shall first be reviewed by the court upon the record. At the court's discretion, a de novo hearing may be held on the decision. The filing of the appeal shall not stay the sanction decision.
  (5) Where the court does not act on the appeal within 15 days of the date of the filing of the appeal, the sanction decision shall be affirmed by operation of law.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
