# § 15-11-442. Disposition hearing; time limitations; disposition of a child in need of services

(a) If the court finds that a child is a child in need of services, a final disposition hearing shall be held and completed within 30 days of the conclusion of the adjudication hearing if the final disposition hearing is not held in conjunction with such adjudication hearing.
(b) The court shall order the least restrictive and most appropriate disposition. Such disposition may include:
  (1) Permitting such child to remain with his or her caregiver without limitations or conditions;
  (2) Permitting such child to remain with his or her caregiver subject to such limitations and conditions as the court may prescribe;
  (3) Placing such child on probation or unsupervised probation on such terms and conditions as deemed in the best interests of such child and the public. An order granting probation to a child in need of services may be revoked on the ground that the terms and conditions of the probation have not been observed;
  (4) Requiring that such child perform community service in a manner prescribed by the court and under the supervision of an individual designated by the court;
  (5) Requiring that such child make restitution. A restitution order may remain in force and effect simultaneously with another order of the court. Payment of funds shall be made by such child or his or her family or employer directly to the clerk of the juvenile court entering the order or another employee of that court designated by the judge, and such court shall disburse such funds in the manner authorized in the order. While an order requiring restitution is in effect, the court may transfer enforcement of its order to:
    (A) The juvenile court of the county of such child's residence and its probation staff, if he or she changes his or her place of residence; or
    (B) A superior court once such child reaches 18 years of age if he or she thereafter comes under the jurisdiction of the superior court;
  (6) Imposing a fine on such child who has committed an offense which, if committed by an adult, would be a violation under the criminal laws of this state or has violated an ordinance or bylaw of a county, city, town, or consolidated government. Such fine shall not exceed the fine which may be imposed against an adult for the same offense;
  (7) Requiring such child to attend structured after-school or evening programs or other court approved programs as well as requiring supervision of such child during the time of the day in which he or she most often used to perform the acts complained of in the petition alleging that such child is a child in need of services;
  (8) Any order authorized for the disposition of a dependent child; provided, however, that the court shall comply with Code Section 15-11-12 for the dual designation of a child;
  (9) Any order authorized for the disposition of a delinquent child except that a child in need of services shall not be placed in a secure residential facility or nonsecure residential facility nor shall such facility accept such child;
  (10) Any order authorized under Code Section 15-11-29.1; or
  (11) Any combination of the dispositions set forth in paragraphs (1) through (10) of this subsection as the court deems to be in the best interests of a child and the public.
(c) All disposition orders shall include written findings of the basis for the disposition and such conditions as the court imposes and a specific plan of the services to be provided.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 246,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 227,§ 1-3, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-34, eff. 4/28/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
