# § 15-11-59. Educational seminars

(a) The Council of Juvenile Court Judges, in conjunction with the Institute of Continuing Judicial Education of Georgia, shall establish seminars for all judges and associate juvenile court judges exercising juvenile court jurisdiction and may make provisions relative to such seminars by court rules properly adopted.
(b) Seminars shall offer instruction and training in juvenile law and procedure, child development and psychology, sociological theories relative to delinquency and breakdown of the family structure, and such other training and activities as the council may determine would promote the quality of justice in the juvenile court system.
(c) Expenses of administration of seminar programs and actual expenses incurred by the judges or associate juvenile court judges in attending such seminars shall be paid from state funds appropriated for the council for such purpose, from federal funds available to the council for such purpose, or from other sources. Judges and associate juvenile court judges shall receive the same expense and travel allowances which members of the General Assembly receive for attending meetings of legislative interim committees.
(d) Each judge and associate juvenile court judge exercising juvenile jurisdiction shall receive training appropriate to the role and participate in at least 12 hours of continuing legal education or continuing judicial education established or approved by the council each year and meet such rules as established by the council pertaining to such training. Superior court judges may meet this requirement by attending seminars held in conjunction with the seminars for superior court judges provided by the Institute of Continuing Judicial Education of Georgia. Judges and associate juvenile court judges shall not exercise juvenile court jurisdiction unless the council certifies that annual training has been accomplished or unless the judge is in the first year of his or her initial appointment; provided, however, that the council may in hardship cases extend deadlines for compliance with this Code section.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
