# § 15-11-231. Permanency plan report

(1) The name, address, and telephone number of such child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian;
(2) The date on which such child was removed from his or her home and the date on which such child was placed in foster care;
(3) The location and type of home or facility in which such child is currently held or placed and the location and type of home or facility in which such child will be placed;
(4) The basis for the decision to hold such child in protective custody or to place such child outside of his or her home;
(5) A statement as to the availability of a safe and appropriate placement with a fit and willing relative of such child or other persons who have demonstrated an ongoing commitment to a child or a statement as to why placement with the relative or other person is not safe or appropriate;
(6) If as a result of the placement such child has been or will be transferred from the school in which such child is or most recently was enrolled, documentation that a placement that would maintain such child in that school is unavailable, inappropriate, or that such child's transfer to another school would be in such child's best interests;
(7) A plan for ensuring the safety and appropriateness of the placement and a description of the services provided to meet the needs of such child and his or her family, including a discussion of services that have been investigated and considered and are not available or likely to become available within a reasonable time to meet the needs of such child or, if available, why such services are not safe or appropriate;
(8) The goal of the permanency plan which shall include:
  (A) Whether and, if applicable, when such child shall be returned to his or her parent;
  (B) Whether and, if applicable, when such child shall be referred for termination of parental rights and adoption;
  (C) Whether and, if applicable, when such child shall be placed with a permanent guardian; or
  (D) In the case in which DFCS has documented a compelling reason that none of the options identified in subparagraphs (A) through (C) of this paragraph would be in the best interests of the child who has attained the age of 16 years old, whether, and if applicable, when such child shall be placed in another planned permanent living arrangement;
(8.1) The documentation listed in paragraph (14) of subsection (b) of Code Section 15-11-201;
(9) If a child adjudicated as a dependent child is 14 years of age or older, a description of the programs and services that are or will be provided to assist such child in preparing for the transition from foster care to independent living. The description shall include all of the following:
  (A) The anticipated age at which such child will be discharged from foster care;
  (B) The anticipated amount of time available in which to prepare such child for the transition from foster care to independent living;
  (C) The anticipated location and living situation of such child on discharge from foster care;
  (D) A description of the assessment processes, tools, and methods that have been or will be used to determine the programs and services that are or will be provided to assist such child in preparing for the transition from foster care to independent living; and
  (E) The rationale for each program or service that is or will be provided to assist such child in preparing for the transition from foster care to independent living, the time frames for delivering such programs or services, and the intended outcome of such programs or services;
(10) When the recommended permanency plan is referral for termination of parental rights and adoption or placement in another home, a description of specific recruitment efforts such as the use of state, regional, and national adoption exchanges, including electronic exchange systems, to facilitate orderly and timely in-state and interstate placements; and
(11) For a child who remains placed in a qualified residential treatment program, documentation that:
  (A) Ongoing assessment of the strengths and needs of the child continues to support the determination that the needs of the child cannot be met through placement in a foster family home;
  (B) Placement in a qualified residential treatment program provides the most effective and appropriate level of care for the child in the least restrictive environment;
  (C) Placement in a qualified residential treatment program is consistent with the short-term and long-term goals for the child, as specified in the permanency plan for the child;
  (D) The specific treatment or service needs that will be met for the child in the placement and the length of time the child is expected to need the treatment or services; and
  (E) The efforts made by the department to prepare the child to return home or to be placed with a fit and willing relative, a legal guardian, or an adoptive parent, or in a foster family home.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 15, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 278,§ 6, eff. 5/7/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 77,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 75,§ 1-7, eff. 5/5/2015.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
