# § 15-11-29. Protective orders

(a) In any proceeding under this chapter, either on application of a party or on the court's own motion, the court may make an order restraining or otherwise controlling the conduct of a person if due notice of the application or motion and the grounds therefor and an opportunity to be heard thereon have been given to the person against whom the order is directed. Such an order may require any such person:
  (1) To stay away from a person's home or a child;
  (2) To permit a parent to visit his or her child at stated periods;
  (3) To abstain from offensive conduct against a child, his or her parent, or any person to whom custody of such child is awarded;
  (4) To give proper attention to the care of his or her home;
  (5) To cooperate in good faith with an agency to which custody of a child is entrusted by the court or with an agency or association to which a child is referred by the court;
  (6) To refrain from acts of commission or omission that tend to make a home not a proper place for a child;
  (7) To ensure that a child attends school pursuant to any valid law relating to compulsory attendance;
  (8) To participate with a child in any counseling or treatment deemed necessary after consideration of employment and other family needs; and
  (9) To enter into and complete successfully a substance abuse program approved by the court.
(b) After notice and opportunity for hearing afforded to a person subject to a protective order, a protective order may be modified or extended for a further specified period, or both, or may be terminated if the court finds that the best interests of the child and the public will be served thereby.
(c) Protective orders may be enforced by citation to show cause for contempt of court by reason of any violation thereof and, where protection of the welfare of a child so requires, by the issuance of a warrant to take the alleged violator into custody and bring him or her before the court.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
