# § 15-11-219. Required findings for qualified residential treatment program admittance; assessment procedures; writing requirement

(a) Before a child's placement in a qualified residential treatment program, but no later than 30 days following the start of such placement, a qualified individual shall:
  (1) Assess the strengths and needs of the child using an age-appropriate, evidence based, validated, functional assessment tool;
  (2) Determine whether the needs of the child can be met with family members or through placement in a foster family home or, if not, which DFCS approved authorized setting would provide the most effective and appropriate level of care for the child in the least restrictive environment and be consistent with the short-term and long-term goals for the child, as specified in the permanency plan for the child; and
  (3) Develop a list of child-specific short-term and long-term mental and behavioral health goals.
(b) The qualified individual conducting the assessment shall work in conjunction with the family and permanency team for the child while conducting and making the assessment.
(c) If the qualified individual conducting the assessment determines the child should not be placed in a foster family home, the qualified individual shall specify in writing:
  (1) The reasons why the needs of the child cannot be met by the family of the child or in a foster family home. A shortage or lack of foster family homes shall not be an acceptable reason for determining that the needs of the child cannot be met in a foster family home; and
  (2) Why the recommended placement in a qualified residential treatment program is the setting that will provide the child with the most effective and appropriate level of care in the least restrictive environment and how that placement is consistent with the short-term and long-term goals for the child, as specified in the permanency plan for the child.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 15, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 278,§ 5, eff. 5/7/2019.
