# § 15-11-261. Scope, effect, and duration of order terminating parental rights

(a) An order terminating the parental rights of a parent shall be without limit as to duration and shall divest the parent and his or her child of all legal rights, powers, privileges, immunities, duties, and obligations with respect to each other, except:
  (1) The right of such child to receive child support from his or her parent until a final order of adoption is entered;
  (2) The right of such child to inherit from and through his or her parent. The right of inheritance of such child shall be terminated only by a final order of adoption; and
  (3) The right of such child to pursue any civil action against his or her parent.
(b) When an order terminating the parent and child relationship has been issued, the parent whose right has been terminated shall not thereafter be entitled to notice of proceedings for the adoption of his or her child by another, nor has the parent any right to object to the adoption or otherwise to participate in such proceedings.
(c) The relationship between a child and his or her siblings shall not be severed until that relationship is terminated by final order of adoption.
(d) A relative whose relationship to a child is derived through the parent whose parental rights are terminated shall be considered to be a relative of such child for purposes of placement of, and permanency plan for, such child until such relationship is terminated by final order of adoption.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
