# § 15-11-10. Exclusive original jurisdiction

(1) Concerning any child who:
  (A) Is alleged to be a delinquent child;
  (B) Is alleged to be a child in need of services;
  (C) Is alleged to be a dependent child;
  (D) Is alleged to be in need of treatment or commitment as a mentally ill or developmentally disabled child;
  (E) Has been placed under the supervision of the court or on probation to the court; provided, however, that such jurisdiction shall be for the purpose of completing, effectuating, and enforcing such supervision or a probation begun either prior to such child's seventeenth birthday if the order is entered as a disposition for an adjudication for delinquency or prior to such child's eighteenth birthday if the order is entered for an adjudication for a child in need of services;
  (F) Is receiving extended care youth services; provided, however, that such jurisdiction shall be for the purpose of reviewing the status of the case, determining that extended care youth services are in the best interests of such child, adopting a transition plan for such child, ensuring the provision of developmentally appropriate services and supports consistent with such plans, and determining whether reasonable efforts are being made to transition such child to independent living or another planned permanent adult living arrangement; or
  (G) Requires a comprehensive services plan in accordance with Code Section 15-11-658;
(2) Concerning any individual under the age of 17 years alleged to have committed a juvenile traffic offense as defined in Code Section 15-11-630; or
(3) Involving any proceedings:
  (A) For obtaining judicial consent to the marriage, employment, or enlistment in the armed services of any child if such consent is required by law;
  (B) For permanent guardianship brought pursuant to the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter;
  (C) Under Chapter 4B of Title 49, the Interstate Compact for Juveniles, or any comparable law, enacted or adopted in this state;
  (D) For the termination of the legal parent-child relationship and the rights of the biological father who is not the legal father of the child in accordance with Article 4 of this chapter; provided, however, that such jurisdiction shall not affect the superior court's exclusive jurisdiction to terminate the legal parent-child relationship and the rights of a biological father who is not the legal father of the child as set forth in Chapters 6 through 9 of Title 19;
  (E) For emancipation brought pursuant to the provisions of Article 10 of this chapter;
  (F) Under Article 8 of this chapter, relating to prior notice to a parent, guardian, or legal custodian relative to an unemancipated minor's decision to seek an abortion; or
  (G) Brought by a local board of education pursuant to Code Section 20-2-766.1, relating to court orders requiring that a parent, guardian, or legal custodian attend a conference or participate in programs or treatment to improve a student's behavior.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 472,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2020.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 75,§ 1-2, eff. 5/5/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 1-3, eff. 4/28/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 634,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
