# § 15-11-204. Nonreunification hearing

(a) If the DFCS report does not contain a plan for reunification services, the court shall hold a nonreunification hearing to review the report and the determination that a plan for reunification services is not appropriate.
(b) The nonreunification hearing shall be held no later than 30 days from the time the DFCS report is filed. Notice of the nonreunification hearing shall be provided, by summons, to the child adjudicated as a dependent child if he or she is 14 years of age or older, his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian, attorney, guardian ad litem, if any, and specified nonparties entitled to notice.
(c) At the nonreunification hearing:
  (1) DFCS shall notify the court whether and when it intends to proceed with termination of parental rights; and
  (2) The court shall also hold a permanency plan hearing, at which the court shall consider in-state and out-of-state permanent placement options for the child adjudicated as a dependent child and shall incorporate a permanency plan for such child in its order.
(d) DFCS shall have the burden of demonstrating by clear and convincing evidence that a reunification plan is not appropriate considering the health and safety of the child adjudicated as a dependent child and such child's need for permanence. There shall be a presumption that reunification is detrimental to a child adjudicated as a dependent child and reunification services should not be provided if the court finds by clear and convincing evidence that:
  (1) Such child's parent has unjustifiably failed to comply with a previously ordered plan designed to reunite the family;
  (2) An alleged dependent child has been removed from his or her home on at least two previous occasions and reunification services were made available on those occasions;
  (3) A ground for terminating parental rights exists; or
  (4) Any of the circumstances set out in subsection (a) of Code Section 15-11-203 exist, making it unnecessary to provide reasonable efforts to reunify.
(e) If the court has entered an order finding that reasonable efforts to reunify a child adjudicated as a dependent child with his or her family are not required but the court finds further that referral for termination of parental rights and adoption is not in the best interests of such child, the court may, upon proper petition, place such child in the custody of a permanent guardian pursuant to the provisions of this article.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
