# § 15-11-506. Detention hearing; time limitations

(a) A detention hearing shall be held to determine whether preadjudication custody of an alleged delinquent child is required. If such hearing is not held within the time specified, such child shall be released from detention or foster care.
(b) If an alleged delinquent child is detained and is not released from preadjudication custody, a detention hearing shall be held promptly and not later than:
  (1) Two days after such child is placed in preadjudication custody if such child is taken into custody without an arrest warrant; or
  (2) Five days after such child is placed in preadjudication custody if such child is taken into custody pursuant to an arrest warrant.
(c) Notwithstanding Code Section 15-11-5, if the detention hearing cannot be held within two days in accordance with paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section because the date for the hearing falls on a weekend or legal holiday, the court shall review the decision to detain such child and make a finding based on probable cause within 48 hours of such child being placed in preadjudication custody.
(d) Reasonable oral or written notice of the detention hearing, stating the time, place, and purpose of the hearing, shall be given to an alleged delinquent child and to his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian, if he or she can be found. In the event such child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian cannot be found, the court shall forthwith appoint a guardian ad litem for such child.
(e) If an alleged delinquent child is not released from preadjudication custody and his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian or guardian ad litem, if any, has not been notified of the hearing and did not appear or waive appearance at such hearing and thereafter files an affidavit showing such facts, the court shall rehear the matter without unnecessary delay and shall order such child's release unless it appears from such hearing that such child's detention or foster care is warranted or required.
(f) At the commencement of the detention hearing, the court shall inform an alleged delinquent child of:
  (1) The contents of the complaint or petition;
  (2) The nature of the proceedings;
  (3) The right to make an application for bail, as provided by Code Section 15-11-507 and Title 17;
  (4) The possible consequences or dispositions that may apply to such child's case following adjudication; and
  (5) His or her due process rights, including the right to an attorney and to an appointed attorney; the privilege against self-incrimination; that he or she may remain silent and that anything said may be used against him or her; the right to confront anyone who testifies against him or her and to cross-examine any persons who appear to testify against him or her; the right to testify and to compel other witnesses to attend and testify in his or her own behalf; the right to a speedy adjudication hearing; and the right to appeal and be provided with a transcript for such purpose.
(g) If an alleged delinquent child can be returned to the custody of his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian through the provision of services to eliminate the need for removal, the court shall release such child to the physical custody of his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian and order that those services shall be provided.
(h) If an alleged delinquent child cannot be returned to the custody of his or her parent, guardian, or legal custodian, a probation officer or community supervision officer, as applicable, shall provide referrals for services as soon as possible to enable such child's parent, guardian, or legal custodian to obtain any assistance that may be needed to effectively provide the care and control necessary for such child to return home.
(i) For purposes of this Code section, preadjudication custody begins when a juvenile court intake officer authorizes the placement of a child in a secure residential facility.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-13, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 75,§ 1-11, eff. 5/5/2015.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
