# § 15-11-623. Permanency plan; hearing, notice, report, and findings of fact when a child is committed to the Department of Juvenile Justice

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "permanency plan" means a specific written plan prepared by DJJ designed to ensure that a child is reunified with his or her family or ensure that such child quickly attains a substitute long-term home when return to such child's family is not possible or is not in such child's best interests.
(b)
  (1) The court shall hold a hearing to review the permanency plan for each child committed to DJJ when a determination has been made that the child's continuation in his or her home is contrary to the child's welfare, and the child is placed in a nonsecure residential facility.
  (2) Such hearing shall be held no later than 12 months from the date a child is considered to have entered foster care and every 12 months thereafter to make determinations including whether the permanency plan for such child is appropriate and whether reasonable efforts to finalize the permanency plan have been made by DJJ.
  (3) A child's parent, guardian, legal custodian, attorney, any relatives providing care for such child, and other interested parties shall be given written notice of such hearing at least five days in advance of such hearing and shall be advised that the permanency plan will be submitted to the court for consideration as the order of the court.
  (4) At least five days prior to such hearing, DJJ shall submit for the court's consideration a report recommending a permanency plan for a child committed to a nonsecure residential facility. Such report shall include documentation of the steps taken by DJJ to finalize the permanent placement for such child.
  (5) Subsequent to such hearing, the court shall make written findings of fact that shall include whether DJJ has made reasonable efforts to finalize the permanency plan in effect at the time of the hearing.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 476,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2014.
