# § 15-11-620. Calculating time when child is delinquent and dependent

(a) When a child is alleged to have committed a delinquent act and be a dependent child, the date such child is considered to have entered foster care shall be the date of the first judicial finding that such child has been subjected to child abuse or neglect or the date that is 60 days after the date on which such child is removed from his or her home, whichever is earlier.
(b) When a child is alleged to have committed a delinquent act and is placed directly in a nonsecure residential facility, the date such child is considered to have entered foster care shall be 60 days after the date on which such child is removed from his or her home.
(c) If a child alleged or adjudicated to have committed a delinquent act is detained in a facility operated primarily for the detention of delinquent children but is later placed in foster care within 60 days of such child's removal from the home, then the date of entry into foster care shall be 60 days after the date of removal.
(d) When a child alleged or adjudicated to have committed a delinquent act is detained in a facility operated primarily for the detention of delinquent children but is later placed in a nonsecure residential facility within 60 days of such child's removal from the home, the date such child is considered to have entered foster care shall be 60 days from the date on which such child is removed from his or her home.
(e) If a child is detained in a facility operated primarily for the detention of delinquent children pending placement in foster care and remains detained for more than 60 days, then the date of entry into foster care shall be the date such child is placed in foster care.
(f) When a child alleged or adjudicated to have committed a delinquent act is detained in a facility operated primarily for the detention of delinquent children and remains detained for more than 60 days and such child is subsequently placed in a nonsecure residential facility, the date such child is considered to have entered foster care shall be the date such child was placed in a nonsecure residential facility.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 476,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2014.
