# § 11-5-103. Scope

(a) This article applies to letters of credit and to certain rights and obligations arising out of transactions involving letters of credit.
(b) The statement of a rule in this article does not by itself require, imply, or negate application of the same or a different rule to a situation not provided for or to a person not specified in this article.
(c) With the exception of subsections (a), (b), and (d) of this Code section, paragraphs (9) and (10) of subsection (a) of Code Section 11-5-102, subsection (d) of Code Section 11-5-106, and subsection (d) of Code Section 11-5-114 and except to the extent prohibited in Code Section 11-1-302 and subsection (d) of Code Section 11-5-117, the effect of this article may be varied by agreement or by a provision stated or incorporated by reference in an undertaking. A term in an agreement or undertaking generally excusing liability or generally limiting remedies for failure to perform obligations is not sufficient to vary obligations prescribed by this article.
(d) Rights and obligations of an issuer to a beneficiary or a nominated person under a letter of credit are independent of the existence, performance, or nonperformance of a contract or arrangement out of which the letter of credit arises or which underlies it including contracts or arrangements between the issuer and the applicant and between the applicant and the beneficiary.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 167,§ 3B-16, eff. 1/1/2016.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 874,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
A former section with this number was repealed and reenacted by Ga. Laws 874, § 1.
