# § 11-5-117. Subrogation of issuer, applicant, and nominated person

(a) An issuer that honors a beneficiary's presentation is subrogated to the rights of the beneficiary to the same extent as if the issuer were a secondary obligor of the underlying obligation owed to the beneficiary and of the applicant to the same extent as if the issuer were the secondary obligor of the underlying obligation owed to the applicant.
(b) An applicant that reimburses an issuer is subrogated to the rights of the issuer against any beneficiary, presenter, or nominated person to the same extent as if the applicant were the secondary obligor of the obligations owed to the issuer and has the rights of subrogation of the issuer to the rights of the beneficiary stated in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) A nominated person who pays or gives value against a draft or demand presented under a letter of credit is subrogated to the rights of:
  (1) The issuer against the applicant to the same extent as if the nominated person were a secondary obligor of the obligation owed to the issuer by the applicant;
  (2) The beneficiary to the same extent as if the nominated person were a secondary obligor of the underlying obligation owed to the beneficiary; and
  (3) The applicant to the same extent as if the nominated person were a secondary obligor of the underlying obligation owed to the applicant.
(d) Notwithstanding any agreement or term to the contrary, the rights of subrogation stated in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section do not arise until the issuer honors the letter of credit or otherwise pays and the rights in subsection (c) of this Code section do not arise until the nominated person pays or otherwise gives value. Until then the issuer, nominated person, and the applicant do not derive under this Code section present or prospective rights forming the basis of a claim, defense, or excuse.

## History

Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 874,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
A former section with this number was repealed and reenacted by Ga. Laws 874, § 1.
