# § 10-5A-28. Administrative proceedings

(a) The Commissioner shall commence an administrative proceeding under this chapter by entering either a notice of intent to do a contemplated act or a summary order. The notice of intent or summary order may be entered without notice, without opportunity for hearing, and need not be supported by findings of fact or conclusions of law, but must be in writing.
(b) Upon entry of a notice of intent or summary order, the Commissioner shall promptly notify all interested parties that the notice or summary order has been entered and the reasons therefor. If the proceeding is pursuant to a notice of intent, the Commissioner shall inform all interested parties of the date, time, and place set for the hearing on the notice. If the proceeding is pursuant to a summary order, the Commissioner shall inform all interested parties that they have 30 business days from the entry of the order to file a written request for a hearing on the matter with the Commissioner and that the hearing will be scheduled to commence within 30 business days after the receipt of the written request.
(c) If the proceeding is pursuant to a summary order, the Commissioner, whether or not a written request for a hearing is received from any interested party, may set the matter down for hearing on the Commissioner's own motion.
(d) If no hearing is requested and none is ordered by the Commissioner, the summary order will automatically become a final order after 30 business days.
(e) If a hearing is requested or ordered, the Commissioner, after notice of, and opportunity for, hearing to all interested persons, may modify or vacate the order or extend it until final determination.
(f) No final order or order after hearing may be returned without:
  (1) Appropriate notice to all interested persons;
  (2) Opportunity for hearing by all interested persons; and
  (3) Entry of written findings of fact and conclusions of law. Every hearing in an administrative proceeding under this chapter shall be public unless the Commissioner grants a request joined in by all the respondents that the hearing be conducted privately.
