# § 47-4-80. Determination of membership service; prior service credit and prior service certificate; creditable service; credit for membership in Teachers Retirement System

(a) The board shall fix and determine by appropriate rules and regulations how much service in any year is equivalent to one year of membership service, but in no case shall more than one year of service be creditable for all service in one calendar year. In developing rules and regulations to determine how much service in any year is equivalent to one year of membership service, the board shall be guided by the nature of the employment being considered and the number of months, weeks, days, and hours normally worked to carry out the normal duties associated with the employment. Service rendered for a regular school year shall be equivalent to one year of service in any case.
(b) Creditable service at retirement on which the retirement allowance of a member shall be based shall consist of the membership service rendered by him or her since he last became a member and, if he or she has a prior service certificate in full force and effect, the amount of the service certified on his or her prior service certificate.
(c) Any person who leaves public school employment at any time after January 1, 1970, to enter military service may return to public school employment at any time within five years after being released from military service and shall receive credit for such active military service upon the payment of employee contributions which would have been paid during his or her absence while in military service, plus the regular interest that would have accrued on such contributions.
(d) Any member who was a member of the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia because the member held a position which required membership in that retirement system and who, during membership in said teachers retirement system, also held a position as a public school employee for which creditable service under this retirement system has not been obtained shall have the right to obtain credit for such prior service as a public school employee by paying to the board of trustees the employee contributions that would have been paid to this retirement system during the period of such prior service plus regular interest thereon compounded annually from the time the prior service was rendered until the date of payment. Any member wishing to obtain credit for prior service under this subsection shall apply therefor to the board of trustees.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 49, eff. 7/1/2010.
