# § 47-4-22. Membership of the board; expenses and per diem; quorum for the transaction of business; chairman, secretary, and treasurer of the board

(a) The board shall be composed of all members of the Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia and two additional members appointed by the Governor. The first two members appointed by the Governor shall be appointed to take office on July 1, 1984. One of such members shall be appointed for an initial term of two years and the other for an initial term of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Thereafter, successors shall be appointed to take office on the date of the expiration of the respective terms of office for terms of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. In the event of a vacancy for any reason in the membership of the board appointed by the Governor, the Governor shall appoint a person to fill the vacancy for the unexpired term.
(b) The members of the board shall each receive $20.00 per day for each day of attending meetings of the board or for any committee meetings called pursuant to authorization of the board and for time spent in necessary travel. The trustees shall be reimbursed for all actual traveling and other expenses necessarily incurred through service on the board. State officials serving on the board shall receive no per diem but shall be entitled to reimbursement for actual expenses incurred by them in carrying out their duties under this chapter.
(c) Six members at any meeting of the board shall constitute a quorum to transact business. Each member shall be entitled to one vote and five votes shall be necessary for a decision by the board.
(d) The chairman, secretary, and treasurer of the board shall be the same as the chairman, director, and treasurer of the Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia.
