# § 47-4-100. Normal, early, and delayed retirement; vesting of right to a retirement benefit

(a) The normal retirement date of a member shall be the first day of the month coinciding with or next following the date he or she reaches the age of 65, except that the normal retirement date of a member who is age 64 or over on January 1, 1970, shall be January 1, 1971. A member shall retire on his or her normal retirement date except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(b) The early retirement date of a member shall be the first day of the month coinciding with or next following the date he or she attains the age of 60. A member may elect to retire at his or her early retirement date and receive the retirement benefit provided by subsection (d) of Code Section 47-4-101.
(c) The right to a retirement benefit under this chapter shall vest in a member who has ten or more years of creditable service if the member has not withdrawn the member's contributions. Except as otherwise provided in Article 2 of Chapter 1 of this title, a member's accumulated contributions shall be 100 percent vested and nonforfeitable at all times. A member shall be 100 percent vested in all benefits under the plan upon attainment of normal retirement age. Upon attaining the member's normal retirement age or the member's early retirement age, the member shall begin receiving the appropriate retirement benefit provided by Code Section 47-4-101.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 50, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 275,§ 22, eff. 5/11/2009.
