# § 47-4-60. Amount of contributions; manner of payment

(a) Each member shall contribute $4.00 monthly as the employee contribution toward the cost of the retirement system; provided, however, that any person first or again becoming a member of this retirement system on or after July 1, 2012, shall contribute $10.00 monthly as the employee contribution. Each local unit of administration shall deduct such amount each month from the compensation of each of its employees who is a member of the retirement system and pay the amounts so deducted to the board. The board shall specify by rules and regulations the time and manner such amounts shall be paid to it.
(b) The employer contributions toward the cost of the retirement system shall be as actuarially determined and approved by the board; and, in making such determination, each local unit of administration shall supply the board with such information at such times and in such manner as the board shall specify by rules and regulations. The amounts determined as the employer contributions shall be certified to the state treasurer at such times as the board shall specify by rules and regulations. It shall be the duty of the state treasurer to pay to the board, from funds appropriated or otherwise available to the retirement system, the amounts so certified by the board. All employer contributions shall be irrevocable and may be used only for the exclusive benefit of members or their beneficiaries.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 763,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
