# § 47-4-40. Eligibility; leaves of absence; termination; transfer of service credits

(a) Any person who is a public school employee on January 1, 1970, shall be a member of the retirement system as a condition of his continued employment, except as provided in this Code section. Any person who becomes a public school employee on or after January 1, 1970, shall become a member of the retirement system as a condition of his employment. This subsection shall become a part of any contract of employment of public school employees which is executed on or after January 1, 1970, but nothing in this Code section shall be construed to impair the obligation of any such contract executed prior to January 1, 1970.
(b) An otherwise eligible public school employee shall be classified as a member only while he is employed by a local unit of administration which is not operating a local retirement system, except as otherwise provided in Code Section 47-4-41.
(c) The membership of any member shall terminate if he retires under this retirement system or withdraws his contributions. Any member who has not withdrawn his contributions to the retirement system may retain his membership while on any leave of absence which is authorized by rules and regulations of the board. The board may continue the membership of a member while in the armed forces of the United States or other emergency wartime service of the United States, which service has been approved in advance by the board, or if he ceases to be a contributing member by reason of illness. No benefit under the retirement system other than the payment of the employee's accumulated contributions shall become payable to him or on his account while he is not in service as a public school employee and no employer contributions shall be made to the retirement system during any such time.
(d) Full-time public school lunchroom, maintenance, or warehouse managers or supervisors, or full-time public school transportation managers or supervisors including those employed by postsecondary vocational-technical schools governed by the Technical College System of Georgia shall have the option of becoming members of the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia, in accordance with Code Section 47-3-63. Any of such personnel who have heretofore exercised said option or who hereafter exercise said option who have or had ten or more years of creditable service under this chapter may withdraw their accumulated contributions from the fund, and upon withdrawing such contributions such personnel shall cease to be members of the retirement system. Said personnel may elect to allow their accumulated contributions to remain in the fund, and such personnel shall retain the vested rights established by Code Section 47-4-100. Upon exercising such option, however, any such personnel shall cease making contributions to the retirement system, and no additional creditable service shall be allowed under the retirement system. Any such person who elects such option and who has less than ten years of creditable service under this chapter shall withdraw the person's accumulated contributions from the fund and, upon exercising such option, such personnel shall cease to be members of the retirement system. Any person subject to this subsection who becomes employed on or after November 1, 1982, shall have the option, which must be exercised within 30 days after becoming employed, of becoming a member of this retirement system or of becoming a member of the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia, provided that any such person who becomes employed by a postsecondary vocational-technical school governed by the Technical College System of Georgia after July 1, 1987, shall exercise such option within one day after becoming so employed. No such person shall be a member of both such retirement systems under any circumstances. Such option shall be exercised by notification, in writing, to the respective boards of trustees of such retirement systems. It shall be the duty and responsibility of local units of administration and postsecondary vocational-technical schools governed by the Technical College System of Georgia to notify their respective employees and persons who become employed in the future and who are subject to this subsection of the options provided for in this subsection and to furnish such employees appropriate forms for the exercise of such options.
(e) Lunchroom, maintenance, warehouse, or transportation workers employed by postsecondary vocational-technical schools governed by the Technical College System of Georgia, who are otherwise eligible under laws, rules, or regulations, shall have the option of becoming members of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, in accordance with Code Sections 20-4-25, 20-4-26, 47-2-1, and 47-2-190. Any of such personnel who have heretofore exercised said option or who hereafter exercise said option who have or had ten or more years of creditable service under this chapter may withdraw their accumulated contributions from the fund, and upon withdrawing such contributions such personnel shall cease to be members of the retirement system. Said personnel may elect to allow their accumulated contributions to remain in the fund, and such personnel shall retain the vested rights established by Code Section 47-4-100. Upon exercising such option, however, any such personnel shall cease making contributions to the retirement system, and no additional creditable service shall be allowed under the retirement system. Any such person who elects such option and who has less than ten years of creditable service under this chapter shall withdraw the person's accumulated contributions from the fund and, upon exercising such option, such person shall cease to be a member of the retirement system. Any person subject to this subsection who becomes employed on or after July 1, 1987, shall have the option, which must be exercised within one day after becoming employed, of becoming a member of this retirement system or of becoming a member of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia. No such person shall be a member of both such retirement systems under any circumstances. Such option shall be exercised by notification, in writing, to the respective boards of trustees of such retirement systems. It shall be the duty and responsibility of postsecondary vocational-technical schools governed by the Technical College System of Georgia to notify their respective employees and persons who become employed in the future and who are subject to this subsection of the options provided for in this subsection and to furnish such employees appropriate forms for the exercise of such options.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 558,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
