# § 50-40-1. Definitions

(1) "Broadband network project" means any deployment of broadband services.
(2) "Broadband services" means a wired or wireless terrestrial service that consists of the capability to transmit at a rate of not less than 25 megabits per second in the downstream direction and at least 3 megabits per second in the upstream direction to end users and in combination with such service provides:
  (A) Access to the internet; or
  (B) Computer processing, information storage, or protocol conversion.
(3) "Broadband services provider" means any provider of broadband services or a public utility or any other person or entity that builds or owns a broadband network project.
(4) "Development authority" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 36-62A-20.
(5) "Eligible applicants" means any or all public bodies, designated by the Department of Community Affairs pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 50-40-81, as political subdivisions qualified to apply for funds under this article.
(6) "Local authority" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 36-82-220.
(7) "Location" means any residence, dwelling, home, business, or building.
(8) "Political subdivision" means a county, municipal corporation, consolidated government, or local authority.
(9) "Qualified broadband provider" means an entity that is authorized to apply for or that obtains a certificate of authority issued pursuant to Code Section 46-5-163 that:
  (A)
    (i) Has, directly or indirectly, been providing broadband services to at least 1,000 locations; and
    (ii) Has been conducting business in the state for at least three years with a demonstrated financial, technical, and operational capability to operate a broadband services network; or
  (B) Is able to demonstrate financial, technical, and operational capability to operate a broadband services network.
(10) "Served area" means a census block that is not designated by the Department of Community Affairs as an unserved area.
(11) "Unserved area" means a census block in which broadband services are not available to 20 percent or more of the locations as determined by the Department of Community Affairs pursuant to Article 2 of this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 50, eff. 5/10/2021.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 423,§ 6-1, eff. 5/7/2018.
