# § 50-40-3. Confidential and proprietary nature of information provided by broadband service providers

(a) All information provided by a broadband services provider pursuant to this chapter shall be presumed to be confidential, proprietary, a trade secret as such term is defined in Code Section 10-1-761, and subject to exemption from disclosure under state and federal law and shall not be subject to disclosure under Article 4 of Chapter 18 of this title, except in the form of a map where information that could be used to determine provider-specific information about the network of the broadband services provider is not disclosed.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, such provider-specific information shall be used solely for the purposes stated under this chapter and shall not, without express permission of the submitting broadband services provider, be released to any person other than to:
  (1) The submitting broadband services provider;
  (2) The Department of Community Affairs or the Georgia Technology Authority;
  (3) Agents designated to assist in developing the map provided for in Article 2 of this chapter;
  (4) Agents designated to assist in developing a state-wide broadband services deployment plan or supporting the coordination of funding programs associated with broadband services pursuant to this chapter;
  (5) Employees of the Department of Community Affairs or the Georgia Technology Authority; or
  (6) Attorneys employed by or under contract with the Department of Community Affairs or the Georgia Technology Authority.
(c) All persons and entities to which any provider-specific information is released pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall protect such information from public disclosure. Nothing in this Code section shall prohibit such persons and entities to publish the maps provided for in this chapter, provided that no data is publicly distributed that could be used to determine provider-specific information about the network of the broadband services provider.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 249,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2023.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 423,§ 6-1, eff. 5/7/2018.
