# § 50-40-21. Development, publication and utilization of map identifying underserved areas

(a) The Department of Community Affairs shall publish on its website a map showing the unserved areas in this state and locations eligible for state or federal funding programs administered by the state for improved broadband service.
(b) For the purposes of facilitating grants, the Department of Community Affairs may distribute data for locations eligible for state or federal funding programs administered by the state for improved broadband services. The Department of Community Affairs shall not publicly distribute data for any location that has broadband services available at a rate of at least 25 megabits per second in the downstream direction and at least 3 megabits per second in the upstream direction to end users except when the rules, regulations, and guidance for funding programs to be administered by the state or federal government requires these locations to be eligible for funding under each program. The Department of Community Affairs shall not publicly distribute any data pursuant to this subsection that could be used to determine provider-specific information about the network of a broadband services provider.
(c) The Department of Community Affairs shall consult with the Federal Communications Commission in determining if a map showing the unserved areas, as determined by the Department of Community Affairs, exists. If on or before July 1, 2018, the Department of Community Affairs determines that such a map does not exist, then such a map shall be created by the Department of Community Affairs or an agent designated by the Department of Community Affairs. Such agent may include the Georgia Technology Authority or other entities and individuals that are determined by the Department of Community Affairs to possess the necessary prerequisites to assist the department in creating such a map. Any such map created by the Department of Community Affairs shall take into consideration any information received pursuant to subsections (d) and (e) of this Code section and Code Section 50-40-22. If the Department of Community Affairs determines that such a map does exist that was not created by the Department of Community Affairs or an agent designated by the Department of Community Affairs, then its website may link to such existing map in lieu of republishing such map.
(d) All local governments shall cooperate with the Department of Community Affairs and any agent designated by the Department of Community Affairs by providing requested information as to addresses and locations of broadband services and other emerging communications technologies within their jurisdictions.
(e) The Department of Community Affairs and any agent designated by the Department of Community Affairs may request information from all broadband services providers in this state in developing a map or making the determination as to the percentage of locations within a census block to which broadband services are not available.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 249,§ 3, eff. 5/2/2023.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 50, eff. 5/12/2019.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 423,§ 6-1, eff. 5/7/2018.
