# § 50-40-2. Coordination of state-wide efforts; development of policies and programs; annual reporting and required information; cooperation between state agencies

(a) The Georgia Technology Authority is authorized and directed to establish and implement such policies and programs as are necessary to coordinate state-wide efforts to promote and facilitate deployment of broadband services and other emerging communications technologies throughout the state. Such policies and programs may include, but are not limited to, the following:
  (1) A written state-wide broadband services deployment plan and the development of recommendations for the promotion and implementation of such a plan;
  (2) Technical support and advisory assistance to state agencies, including, but not limited to, the Department of Community Affairs and the OneGeorgia Authority, in developing grant programs, designation programs, and other programs to promote the deployment of broadband services and other emerging communications technologies;
  (3) A periodic analysis performed in conjunction with the State Properties Commission of any state assets, including, but not limited to, real property and structures thereon, that may be leased or otherwise utilized for broadband services deployment; and
  (4) Coordination between state agencies, local governments, industry representatives, community organizations, and other persons that control access to resources, such as facilities and rights of way, that may be used for the deployment of broadband services and other emerging communications technologies, that apply for or receive federal funds for the deployment of broadband services and other emerging communications technologies, and that promote economic and community development.
(b) The Georgia Technology Authority shall submit copies of an annual report to the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the Governor regarding the policies and programs established by the authority as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section. Such report shall specifically include information as to the status of attainment of state-wide deployment of broadband services and other emerging communications technologies and industry and technology trends in broadband services and other emerging communications technologies. The Georgia Technology Authority shall also provide such report to all members of the General Assembly; provided, however, that the authority shall not be required to distribute copies of the report to the members of the General Assembly but shall notify the members of the availability of such report in the manner which it deems to be most effective and efficient. Furthermore, such report may be a part of or submitted in conjunction with the report required to be submitted by the Department of Community Affairs pursuant to Code Section 50-40-84.
(c) All state agencies shall cooperate with the Georgia Technology Authority and its designated agents by providing requested information to assist in the development and administration of policies and programs and the annual report provided for in this Code section.
(d) The Georgia Technology Authority shall promulgate any policies necessary to effectuate the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 423,§ 6-1, eff. 5/7/2018.
