# § 47-2-260. Continuation of membership, rights, and benefits of judges of superior courts and district attorneys; notice of election to continue membership; contributions

(a) The provisions of this or any other law to the contrary notwithstanding, on and after April 1, 1969, any person appointed or elected as a judge of the superior court or as a district attorney who at the time of such appointment or election is a member of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia shall be entitled to elect to continue as a member of the retirement system while holding office as a judge of the superior court or district attorney. All rights, credits, and funds in the retirement system which are possessed by any such member at the time of the member's appointment or election shall be continued in force and the member shall be entitled to all rights and benefits under the retirement system to which the member was entitled at the time of the member's appointment or election and to all rights subsequently acquired.
(b) Within 30 days after appointment or election as a judge of the superior court or as a district attorney, any such person who elects to continue as a member of the retirement system shall notify the director of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia and The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia or the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia, as appropriate, of that decision. Upon making such election and giving the required notice, a member who is subject to the provisions of this Code section shall not be required to become a member of or make contributions to the Georgia Judicial Retirement System created by Chapter 23 of this title.
(c) Employee contributions, including contributions for retirement allowances, survivors benefits under Code Section 47-2-128, and social security coverage, of members referred to in this Code section shall be deducted by The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia or the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia, as appropriate, from the compensation paid by the state to such members and remitted to the retirement system.
(d) The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia and the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia are authorized and directed to pay from the funds appropriated or otherwise made available for the operation of the judicial branch of government of this state the required employer contributions, including contributions for retirement allowances, survivors benefits under Code Section 47-2-128, and social security coverage, and to remit those contributions to the retirement system.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 64, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 157,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
