# § 47-2-55. Pension accumulation fund; purposes; employer contributions; crediting of interest and dividends earned on funds of the retirement system

The pension accumulation fund shall be the fund in which shall be held the reserves for all annuities in force and from which shall be paid all annuities and all benefits in lieu of annuities under this chapter. If a beneficiary is restored to membership, his or her annuity reserve shall be transferred from the pension accumulation fund to his or her individual account in the annuity savings fund. The pension accumulation fund shall also be the fund in which are accumulated all reserves for the payment of all pensions and other benefits payable from contributions made by employers and from which are paid all such pensions and other benefits. Employer contributions shall consist of a percentage of the earnable compensation of members, to be known as the "normal cost contribution," and an additional percentage of such earnable compensation, to be known as the "unfunded accrued liability contribution." These contributions shall be borne by appropriations from state and federal funds. The percentage rate of each portion of the employer contribution shall be fixed on the basis of the liabilities of the retirement system, as shown by actuarial valuation, as provided for in subsection (b) of Code Section 47-2-26, subject to the provisions of Code Section 47-20-10. All interest and dividends earned on the funds of the retirement system shall be credited to the pension accumulation fund. Once each year the board of trustees shall transfer from the pension accumulation fund to the annuity savings fund such amounts as are sufficient to allow regular interest on the balances of the individual accounts of members in the annuity savings fund.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 454,§ 1, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 103,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2005.
