# § 47-2-355. Disability retirement; periodic medical examination and review

(a)
  (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (2) through (5) of this subsection, any member in service who has at least 15 years of creditable service who becomes disabled in service before becoming eligible to receive a service retirement allowance may be retired on a disability allowance by the board of trustees, upon written application to the board of trustees by the member or his or her employer and upon certification by the medical board that he or she is medically or physically incapable of further performance of his or her duties in the position he or she held at the time his or her disability originated, that incapacity is likely to be permanent, and that he or she should be retired; provided, however, that the medical board shall not consider any evidence of such disability which is not submitted within 12 months after the date the member submits his or her first application for a disability retirement. The board of trustees may retire such member not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days after execution and filing of the written application.
  (2) A member making application for a disability retirement pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall at the same time submit a copy of such application together with any supporting documentation accompanying such application to his or her employing agency. The member shall thereafter provide the employing agency with any additional information or documentation which he or she submits to the board of trustees in conjunction with such application.
  (3) After receipt of the notice provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the head of the member's agency or his or her designee shall conduct an interview with the member applying for disability retirement; provided, however, that any designee of the head of an agency shall be an official at such agency who is above the level of the applicant's immediate supervisor and who has the authority to make job assignment decisions. The interview shall be held within ten business days after receipt of such notice. Based on the interview and information received by the agency pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the agency head or his or her designee shall determine if an alternative position is available for the member which meets the following requirements:
    (A) The physical requirements for such position are compatible with the member's physical limitations;
    (B) The annual compensation and possibility for future advancement for such position shall be the same as or greater than that of the current position of the member;
    (C) The duties for such position shall be reasonably compatible with the experience and educational qualifications of the member;
    (D) The position shall be one which includes the holder thereof as a member of the retirement system provided for by this chapter; and
    (E) The position must be available for acceptance by the member and an offer of the position to the official or member must be made, in writing, by not later than 45 days after the member submitted his or her application for a disability retirement. An agency making an offer of alternative employment as provided in this paragraph shall so notify the board of trustees within 45 days after the member submitted his or her application for a disability retirement. After receipt of such notice, the board of trustees shall not approve a disability retirement until the procedures of paragraph (4) of this subsection are resolved.
  (4) Any member applying for a disability retirement who is offered a position of employment in conformity with the requirements of paragraph (3) of this subsection shall accept the offer or dispute his or her ability to perform the tasks required by the position offered by submitting a written appeal to the agency and to the board of trustees within 30 days after receiving the offer. In the event of an appeal, the agency shall promptly submit to the medical board a detailed description of the requirements of the position offered and the medical board shall determine, based upon all information available to it, whether the member is reasonably capable of performing such tasks. The decision of the medical board shall be final. If the medical board determines that the member is unable to perform the tasks required either by the position held at the time of the application for a disability retirement or the position offered, the member shall be placed on disability retirement immediately.
  (5) A member who refuses to accept a position offered or file an appeal in a timely manner or who refuses to accept a position which the medical board has determined on appeal that he or she is capable of performing shall not be eligible to receive a disability retirement under this subsection.
(b) Any member who has at least 15 years of creditable service and who becomes disabled in service before becoming eligible to receive a service retirement allowance shall be eligible to retire forthwith without regard to age and to receive the equivalent of a service retirement allowance calculated upon the number of years of creditable service attained to the date of retirement and based upon his or her highest average monthly compensation during a period of 24 consecutive calendar months while a member of the retirement system. No member who is eligible to receive a service retirement benefit shall be eligible to apply for or receive a disability benefit.
(c)
  (1) Once each year during the first five years following the retirement of a member on a disability retirement allowance and once in every three-year period thereafter, the board of trustees may require a disability beneficiary who has not yet attained retirement age as specified in subsection (a) of Code Section 47-2-110 to undergo a medical examination, such examination to be made at a place designated by the board, by physicians designated by the medical board. The disability beneficiary may request such an examination. Should any disability beneficiary who has not yet attained retirement age refuse to submit to such medical examination, the pension of such disability beneficiary may be discontinued by the board of trustees until the withdrawal of such refusal; and should the refusal continue for one year, all rights of the disability beneficiary in and to a pension may be revoked by the board of trustees. Should the medical board report and certify to the board of trustees that a disability beneficiary is engaged in or is able to engage in a gainful occupation paying more than the difference between the disability beneficiary's retirement allowance and the earnable compensation used to calculate the disability retirement allowance at the time of retirement, the board of trustees may reduce the disability beneficiary's pension to an amount which, together with the disability beneficiary's annuity and the amount earnable by the disability beneficiary, equals the earnable compensation used to calculate the disability retirement allowance at the time of retirement. Should the disability beneficiary's earning capacity be later changed, the amount of the pension may be further modified, provided that the modified pension shall not exceed an amount which, together with the disability beneficiary's annuity and the amount earnable by the disability beneficiary, equals the earnable compensation used to calculate the disability retirement allowance at the time of retirement.
  (2) The board of trustees may require a disability beneficiary who has not yet attained retirement age as specified in subsection (a) of Code Section 47-2-110 to provide information relevant to any provision of this chapter relating to his or her entitlement to receive a disability retirement. Should any disability beneficiary who has not yet attained retirement age refuse to submit any such information so requested, the board of trustees may suspend the retirement allowance of such disability beneficiary until such information is provided. Should the board of trustees receive information from any source that a disability beneficiary is engaged in an occupation paying more than the difference between the disability beneficiary's retirement allowance and the earnable compensation used to calculate the disability retirement allowance at the time of retirement, the board of trustees may reduce the disability beneficiary's pension to an amount which, together with the disability beneficiary's annuity and the amount earnable by the disability beneficiary, equals the earnable compensation used to calculate the disability retirement allowance at the time of retirement. Should the disability beneficiary's earnings later be changed, the amount of the pension may be further modified, provided that the modified pension shall not exceed an amount which, together with the disability beneficiary's annuity and the amount earnable by the disability beneficiary, equals the earnable compensation used to calculate the disability retirement allowance at the time of retirement.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 92,§ 1, eff. 4/30/2009.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 757,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
