# § 47-2-290. Judges, solicitors, and other employees of state courts subject to merit system; membership in retirement system; contributions; exemptions

(a) The state courts of this state are declared to be adjuncts of the superior courts, the state courts having concurrent jurisdiction in all civil and criminal matters except those exclusively vested in the superior courts. All judges, solicitors, and other employees of any state court in this state shall be subject to a merit system of personnel administration as promulgated by each state court under which all such officers and employees shall perform services on the basis of merit, fitness, and efficiency. All such officers and employees are authorized to become members of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia in accordance with this chapter. The governing authority of each county of this state shall deduct or collect from each member the employee contributions required by this chapter and shall remit those contributions to the retirement system on a monthly basis. The Council of State Court Judges of Georgia is authorized and directed to pay from the funds appropriated or otherwise available the employer contribution required by this chapter for judges and employees of the state courts, which contribution shall be paid by The Council of State Court Judges of Georgia, upon receipt of an invoice from the retirement system. The Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia is authorized and directed to pay from the funds appropriated or otherwise available the employer contribution required by this chapter for solicitors-general of the state courts, which contribution shall be paid by the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia, upon receipt of an invoice from the retirement system.
(b) All judges, solicitors, and other employees of any state court who were in service on December 1, 1952, shall be entitled to all benefits authorized under this chapter in the same manner as if they had been members of the retirement system on that date.
(c) Reserved.
(d) Code Section 47-2-291 shall not apply to judges and solicitors of the state courts who participate in the retirement system in their capacity as judges and solicitors; but all judges and solicitors so participating shall be entitled to credit for all their prior years of service rendered as judge or solicitor, or both.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 510,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 64, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 157,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2010.
