# § 47-2-356. Death allowances and benefits

(a) For purposes of calculating a survivor's benefit, any member who has at least 15 years of creditable service and who dies in service before becoming eligible for a service retirement shall be deemed to be eligible to retire forthwith without regard to age and to receive the equivalent of a service retirement allowance calculated upon the number of years of creditable service attained to the date of retirement and based upon his or her highest average monthly compensation during a period of 24 consecutive calendar months while a member of the retirement system. Any member who dies in service after becoming eligible for a service retirement shall be deemed to be eligible to retire forthwith to receive a service retirement allowance.
(b) In the application of this subsection to death allowances, computations of retirement allowances shall be made on the same basis as though option two had been in effect. In lieu of the amount of death allowance otherwise payable to the beneficiary under option two, the member, upon written request, may at any time elect a reduced level death allowance of equivalent actuarial value, which allowance is payable to the beneficiary during a period of years certain or to the estate of the beneficiary and during the lifetime of such named beneficiary thereafter. At the election of the member, in case of death of the beneficiary during a term of years certain, the balance of the years certain payments may be paid to the estate of the member; but if such beneficiary predeceases the member, the total amount of the member's contributions to the date of his or her death shall be payable to the member's estate. The method of determining the equivalent actuarial value shall be consistent with the actuarial method of determining the beneficiary's death allowance under option two.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 83,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 757,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
