# § 47-2-262. Membership in retirement system of assistant district attorneys and employees of the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council; notice of election to become a member; contributions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Assistant district attorneys" means assistant district attorneys who are compensated from state funds pursuant to Code Section 15-18-14.
  (2) "Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia" means the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia created by Article 2 of Chapter 18 of Title 15.
(b) Each assistant district attorney and each employee of the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia, hereinafter in this Code section collectively referred to as "employee" or "employees," who becomes an employee on or after July 1, 1979, shall become a member of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia as a condition of his or her employment, unless he or she is eligible for membership in another publicly supported retirement or pension system or fund which provides retirement benefits based wholly or partially on compensation of such employee paid from state funds. An employee who is eligible for membership in any such other publicly supported retirement or pension system or fund may elect to become a member of the retirement system in lieu of membership in such other publicly supported retirement or pension system or fund by notifying the board of trustees of such election within 90 days after becoming employed with the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia. Any such employee who fails to notify the board of trustees within such time shall not at any time thereafter be eligible for membership in the retirement system. The state salary paid to employees who become members of the retirement system shall be the basis for employee and employer contributions for such employees. All employer contributions required by this chapter for such members shall be paid from funds appropriated or otherwise available. The Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia shall deduct from the state salaries payable to such members the employee contributions required by this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 30, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 157,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 546, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
