# § 47-2-316. Membership in the retirement system of officers or employees of Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority" or "authority" means the Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority established by Chapter 3 of Title 2, known as the "Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority Act."
(b) Effective on July 1, 1988, or on first becoming officers or employees of the Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority, all such officers and employees shall become members of the retirement system. Any officer or employee of the authority who was already a member of the retirement system on July 1, 1988, and any member of the retirement system who, without any break in service, becomes an officer or employee of the authority on or after July 1, 1988, shall continue in the same membership status without any interruption in membership service and without the loss of any creditable service. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, any person becoming a member of the retirement system pursuant to the provisions of this Code section shall be subject to the provisions of Code Section 47-2-334.
(c) All employer contributions, including employee contributions made by the employer on behalf of members, which are required by this chapter shall be made for members who are subject to the provisions of this Code section from funds appropriated or otherwise available for the operation of the Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority. The authority shall deduct from the salaries payable to such members the additional employee contributions required by this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 685,§ 1, eff. 5/1/2012.
