# § 47-2-120. Retirement allowances

(a) Upon service retirement, a member shall receive a service retirement allowance which shall consist of:
  (1) An annuity which shall be the actuarial equivalent of his or her accumulated contributions at the time of his or her retirement; and
  (2) A pension equal to the annuity allowable at age of retirement, but not to exceed an annuity which would have been allowed at age 65, which pension shall be computed on the basis of his or her contributions made prior to attaining age 65, provided that any member may continue his or her contributions after attaining 65 years of age, and by so doing shall receive membership service credit for such period of time, which shall be used in the computation of retirement allowances.
(b) No person who at any time elected nonmembership shall establish, nor shall any person who transferred to the retirement system or who previously became a member shall increase, the pension set forth in paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section by reason of his employment in or transfer to another employer. No member shall be eligible for that pension unless at least 30 days of his prior service was earned within an 18 month period immediately preceding his date of membership.
(c) Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, any member with 30 years of service, regardless of age, shall be eligible to retire forthwith and, upon retirement, shall be paid not less than the service retirement allowance which would have been payable to such member upon service retirement at age 65 with 30 years of service.
(d) Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, any member whose current membership began prior to July 1, 1982, and who has at least 34 years of service shall be eligible to retire forthwith and upon retirement shall be paid not less than the service retirement allowance which would have been payable upon service retirement at the age of 65 had the member continued in service without further change in compensation.
(e) In the case of any member who has at least 25 but less than 30 years of creditable service and who has not reached the age of 60 years upon retirement, the service allowance set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be reduced by an actuarial equivalent certified by the board of trustees. Such reduced amount shall take into consideration the member's age and number of years of creditable service at the time of retirement and shall be sufficient to permit retirement at such age or with such number of years of creditable service without creating any accrued liability against the retirement system. Such reduction shall not apply in calculating the service allowance for disability retirement or death. Any member who retires with less than 30 years of creditable service or who has not obtained the age of 60 at the time of retirement shall not become eligible for postretirement benefit adjustments until such time as the member reaches the age of 60 or would have obtained 30 years of creditable service, whichever occurs earlier.
(f) The board of trustees shall cause the actuary for the retirement system to calculate the actuarial cost to the retirement system of any salary increase granted to a member in excess of 5 percent over the 12 months immediately prior to such member's retirement date and shall notify the employing unit of such amount. Such notice shall be sent not later than 60 days following such member's retirement date. The employing unit shall pay such amount, together with the cost of such actuarial calculation, as a supplemental employer contribution to the board of trustees not later than the last day of the month following receipt of such notice.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 275,§ 18, eff. 5/11/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 83,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
