# § 47-2-221. Disability allowances payable to personnel for certain disabilities arising in the line of duty

(a)
  (1) Notwithstanding the disability allowance provided for in Code Section 47-2-123, any member in service of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety, any game warden of the Department of Natural Resources, any officer or agent of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, and any alcohol and tobacco officer or agent of the Department of Revenue who, while a contributing member of this retirement system and upon becoming permanently disabled due to an act of external violence or injury incurred in line of duty, becomes eligible for disability retirement allowances shall, upon making written application to the board of trustees either personally or through his or her employer and after a medical examination and upon certification by the medical board that such member is, in their opinion, permanently disabled, be entitled to a monthly allowance as computed on the member's life expectancy without option. Such monthly allowance as shall be payable to the member only, during his or her life or length of disability, shall not exceed 80 percent of the service allowance that would have been payable to the member had he accumulated not more than 30 years of creditable service and had retired at age 65. Such allowance shall be computed on the basis of the member's monthly earnable compensation for the month in which his or her permanent disability occurred. Such permanent disability retirement shall apply regardless of the length of service of any such member; and such member shall be deemed to have acquired 30 or more years of creditable service. In addition, a member so disabled in the line of duty shall receive a monthly supplemental benefit which shall be in the amount of $5.00 per month for each year of creditable service as a member of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety, game warden of the Department of Natural Resources, alcohol and tobacco officer or agent of the Department of Revenue, or as an officer or agent of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation. Such additional monthly supplemental benefit shall in no event exceed $150.00 per month. Any other provision of law to the contrary notwithstanding, any member of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety who retired prior to July 1, 1970, as a result of becoming permanently disabled due to an act of external violence or injury incurred in the line of duty and who was a member of the retirement system on the date of the injury or act of violence shall be entitled to and shall receive the monthly supplemental benefit provided for in this subsection.
  (2) In lieu of the foregoing, any member so disabled in the line of duty shall be entitled to receive a minimum monthly disability retirement benefit equal to 2 percent of his or her monthly earnable compensation for the month in which his or her permanent disability occurred for each year of creditable service determined as though he or she had continued in service in the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety, as a game warden of the Department of Natural Resources, as an alcohol and tobacco officer or agent of the Department of Revenue, or as an officer or agent of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation until his or her mandatory retirement age.
(b)
  (1) Notwithstanding the disability allowance provided for in Code Section 47-2-123, any employee of the Department of Natural Resources appointed as a deputy game warden under Code Section 27-1-17, any parole officer employed by the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, any probation officer employed by the Department of Corrections, and any community supervision officer employed by the Department of Community Supervision who, while a contributing member of this retirement system and upon becoming permanently disabled due to an act of external violence or injury incurred in the line of law enforcement duty, becomes eligible for disability retirement allowances shall, after a medical examination and upon certification by the medical board that such member is, in their opinion, permanently disabled, be entitled to a monthly allowance as computed on the member's life expectancy without option. Such monthly allowance as shall be payable to the member only, during his or her life or length of disability, shall not exceed 80 percent of the service allowance that would have been payable to the member had he or she accumulated not more than 30 years of creditable service and had retired at age 65. Such allowance shall be computed on the basis of the member's monthly earnable compensation for the month in which his or her permanent disability occurred. Such permanent disability retirement shall apply regardless of the length of service of any such member; and such member shall be deemed to have acquired 30 or more years of creditable service. In addition, a member so disabled in the line of law enforcement duty shall receive a monthly supplemental benefit which shall be in the amount of $5.00 per month for each year of creditable service as an employee of the Department of Natural Resources who has been appointed as a deputy game warden under Code Section 27-1-17, parole officer of the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, probation officer of the Department of Corrections, or any community supervision officer employed by the Department of Community Supervision. Such additional monthly supplemental benefit shall in no event exceed $150.00 per month.
  (2) In lieu of the foregoing, any member so disabled in the line of law enforcement duty shall be entitled to receive a minimum monthly disability retirement benefit equal to 2 percent of his or her monthly earnable compensation for the month in which his or her permanent disability occurred for each year of creditable service determined as though he or she had continued in service as a deputy game warden, probation officer, parole officer, or a community supervision officer until his or her mandatory retirement age.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 264,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 400,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 104,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
