# § 47-2-70. Determination of membership; termination of membership

(a) After January 1, 1950, any person who becomes an employee of any employer which operates under a merit system of personnel administration and which is covered by the retirement system shall become a member of the retirement system as a condition of his or her employment, except as otherwise specifically excluded.
(b) The membership of any person shall terminate if he or she retires under this retirement system, withdraws his or her contributions, or renders less than one year of service within a period of five consecutive years as a member. No benefit under the retirement system shall accrue to a member's account while he or she is not in service as an employee and no contribution shall be made to the retirement system by the member, the state, or any other employer during any such time.
(c) The board of trustees may continue the membership of any person while such person is on leave of absence with stipend for professional training when such leave is approved in writing by the employer for which the employee renders service, provided that a member who receives a stipend while on leave for professional training shall make a monthly contribution to the retirement system, which contribution shall be the same basic percentage of his or her salary as an employee as he or she contributed in the last month prior to the effective date of leave. A member shall be considered as being in service while on such leave.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2010.
