# § 47-2-327. Employees of the State Road and Tollway Authority to become members of the retirement system; status; employer and employee contributions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "State Road and Tollway Authority" or "authority" means that authority continued by Article 2 of Chapter 10 of Title 32, relating to the State Road and Tollway Authority.
(b) Effective July 1, 2006, or on the date of employment, whichever date is later, each officer or employee of the authority shall become a member of the retirement system.
(c) Any officer or employee of the authority who was already a member of the retirement system on July 1, 2006, and any member of the retirement system who, without any break in service, becomes an officer or employee of the authority on or after July 1, 2006, shall continue in the same membership status without any interruption in membership service and without the loss of any creditable service.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, an officer or employee of the authority becoming a member of the retirement system pursuant to the provisions of this Code section shall be subject to the provisions of Code Section 47-2-334.
(e) All employer contributions, including employee contributions made by the employer on behalf of members, which are required by this chapter shall be made for members who are subject to the provisions of this Code section from funds appropriated to or otherwise available for the operation of the State Road and Tollway Authority. The authority shall deduct from the salaries payable to such members the additional employee contributions required by this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 477,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
