# § 47-2-123. Allowance payable upon death, disability, or involuntary separation from employment; restrictions on separation for disability; restrictions on entitlement to involuntary separation benefits

(a) Upon the death or involuntary separation from employment without prejudice of any member in service, he or she shall be entitled to an allowance in accordance with subsection (c) of this Code section, provided that the provisions of this subsection that relate to "upon becoming involuntarily separated from employment without prejudice" shall not be applicable to any person who first becomes a member after March 31, 1972.
(b)
  (1) Subject to the provisions of paragraphs (2) through (5) of this subsection, any member in service who has at least 15 years of creditable service may be retired on a disability allowance by the board of trustees, upon written application to the board of trustees by the member or his or her employer and upon certification by the medical board that he or she is medically or physically incapable of further performance of his or her duties in the position he or she held at the time his or her disability originated, that incapacity is likely to be permanent, and that he or she should be retired; provided, however, that the medical board shall not consider any evidence of such disability which is not submitted within 12 months after the date the member submits his or her first application for a disability retirement. The board of trustees may retire such member not less than 30 days nor more than 90 days after execution and filing of the written application.
  (2) A member making application for a disability retirement pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall at the same time submit a copy of such application together with any supporting documentation accompanying such application to his or her employing agency. The member shall thereafter provide the employing agency with any additional information or documentation which he or she submits to the board of trustees in conjunction with such application.
  (3) After receipt of the notice provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the head of the member's agency or his or her designee shall conduct an interview with the member applying for disability retirement; provided, however, that any designee of the head of an agency shall be an official at such agency who is above the level of the applicant's immediate supervisor and who has the authority to make job assignment decisions. The interview shall be held within ten business days after receipt of such notice. Based on the interview and information received by the agency pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection, the agency head or his or her designee shall determine if an alternative position is available for the member which meets the following requirements:
    (A) The physical requirements for such position are compatible with the member's physical limitations;
    (B) The annual compensation and possibility for future advancement for such position shall be the same as or greater than that of the current position of the member;
    (C) The duties for such position shall be reasonably compatible with the experience and educational qualifications of the member;
    (D) The position shall be one which includes the holder thereof as a member of the retirement system provided for by this chapter; and
    (E) The position must be available for acceptance by the member and an offer of the position to the official or member must be made, in writing, by not later than 45 days after the member submitted his or her application for a disability retirement. An agency making an offer of alternative employment as provided in this paragraph shall so notify the board of trustees within 45 days after the member submitted his or her application for a disability retirement. After receipt of such notice, the board of trustees shall not approve a disability retirement until the procedures of paragraph (4) of this subsection are resolved.
  (4) Any member applying for a disability retirement who is offered a position of employment in conformity with the requirements of paragraph (3) of this subsection shall accept the offer or dispute his or her ability to perform the tasks required by the position offered by submitting a written appeal to the agency and to the board of trustees within 30 days after receiving the offer. In the event of an appeal, the agency shall promptly submit to the medical board a detailed description of the requirements of the position offered and the medical board shall determine, based upon all information available to it, whether the member is reasonably capable of performing such tasks. The decision of the medical board shall be final. If the medical board determines that the member is unable to perform the tasks required either by the position held at the time of the application for a disability retirement or the position offered, the member shall be placed on disability retirement immediately.
  (5) A member who refuses to accept a position offered or file an appeal in a timely manner or who refuses to accept a position which the medical board has determined on appeal that he or she is capable of performing shall not be eligible to receive a disability retirement under this subsection.
(c)
  (1) The provisions of this paragraph shall apply only to persons who are members of the retirement system on June 30, 2007. Any member who is at least 60 years of age upon disability retirement, involuntary separation from employment without prejudice, or death shall receive the equivalent of a service retirement allowance. Any such member who is under 60 years of age shall receive, as appropriate, a disability allowance, allowance in case of involuntary separation from employment without prejudice, or death allowance, which shall consist of:
    (A) In the case of a member with at least 15 years of service, 75 percent of the service retirement allowance which would have been payable upon service retirement at age 60 had the member continued in service to age 60 without further change in compensation, provided that this subparagraph shall not apply to a member whose employment was terminated by involuntary separation without prejudice;
    (B) In the case of a member with at least 20 years of service, the service retirement allowance which would have been payable upon service retirement at age 60 had the member continued in service to age 60 without further change in compensation;
    (C) In the case of a member with at least 25 years of service, 75 percent of the service retirement allowance which would have been payable upon service retirement at age 65 had he or she continued in service without further change in compensation; or
    (D) In the case of a member with at least 30 years of service, the service retirement allowance which would have been payable upon service retirement at age 65 had he or she continued in service without further change in compensation. Any provisions of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, in the application of subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) of this paragraph relating to allowances other than for disability or death, projected retirement allowance computations shall be made on the basis of the member's highest total monthly earnable compensation, as reflected by monthly contributions made during the last 24 calendar months in which he or she had made contributions, except that no salary increase by adjustment in compensation in any manner in excess of 10 percent during the last 12 months of membership service shall be included in the projected computation.
  (2) The provisions of this paragraph shall apply only to persons who first or again become members of the retirement system on or after July 1, 2007. Any member who has at least 15 years of creditable service and who becomes disabled before becoming eligible for a service retirement as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 47-2-110 shall be eligible to retire forthwith without regard to age and to receive a disability retirement allowance calculated upon the number of years of creditable service attained to the date of retirement and based upon his or her highest average monthly compensation during a period of 24 consecutive calendar months while a member of the retirement system. No member who is eligible for an equivalent service retirement shall be eligible to apply for a disability retirement allowance.
  (3) In lieu of a death benefit as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection, a member who first or again becomes a member of the retirement system on or after July 1, 2007, and who has at least ten years of creditable service and is at least 60 years of age or who is less than 60 years of age and has at least 15 years of creditable service shall upon death receive the equivalent of a service retirement allowance calculated upon the number of years of creditable service attained on the date of death and based upon his or her highest average monthly compensation during a period of 24 consecutive calendar months while a member of the retirement system.
(d) In the application of subsection (c) of this Code section to death allowances, computations of projected retirement allowances shall be made on the same basis as though option two had been in effect. In lieu of the amount of death allowance otherwise payable to the beneficiary under option two, the member, upon written request, may at any time elect a reduced level death allowance of equivalent actuarial value, which allowance is payable to the beneficiary during a period of years certain or to the estate of the beneficiary and during the lifetime of such named beneficiary thereafter. At the election of the member, in case of death of the beneficiary during a term of years certain, the balance of the years certain payments may be paid to the estate of the member; but if such beneficiary predeceases the member, the total amount of the member's contributions to the date of his or her death shall be payable to the member's estate. The method of determining the equivalent actuarial value shall be consistent with the actuarial method of determining the beneficiary's death allowance under option two.
(e) Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, on and after March 6, 1963, a member who has not accumulated sufficient creditable service to qualify himself or herself for an allowance in case of involuntary separation from employment without prejudice shall not be deemed eligible for such allowances until he or she has accumulated sufficient membership service in a position classified under a merit system provided for by law or in a position covered under the retirement system. This subsection shall not affect the vesting of rights under Code Section 47-2-122. This subsection shall not be retroactive in any manner and shall not apply in any way to any person who was a member on or before February 13, 1962.
(f) The age and service requirements for a service retirement allowance shall not apply to allowances available under this Code section.
(g) From and after January 1, 1985, no employing unit within the government of the State of Georgia, including every department, commission, board, bureau, agency, branch of government, or any other employing unit by whatever name called, which has the authority and power to appoint, employ, release, separate, or fail to reappoint public officials or employees shall release or separate from state service, or fail to reappoint to continued state service, any public official or employee who is entitled to coverage under the involuntary separation retirement benefits provisions of this Code section. A release, separation, or failure to reappoint in violation of the provisions of this subsection shall be illegal, unlawful, and void. However, such releases or separations from state service or failures to reappoint to continued state service shall not be subject to the provisions of this subsection if such releases or separations from service or failures to reappoint occur under any of the following circumstances:
  (1) Separation or release from service of an official or employee pursuant to Code Section 47-2-2 or separation or release from service of an official or the failure to reappoint an official by a board when such official serves at the pleasure of the board;
  (2) Separation or release from service of an official or employee for any reason which would constitute cause as defined in the rules and regulations of the State Personnel Board if such separation or release from service is not pursuant to Code Section 47-2-2;
  (3) Separation or release from service of an official or employee for criminal conduct under the laws of this state, any other state, or the United States; or
  (4) A "discretionary termination" which means any one of the following:
    (A) Separation or release from service of an official or employee under circumstances in which an official or employee is released or separated or any official's or employee's position or job is abolished through a valid reduction-in-force plan approved by the Department of Administrative Services;
    (B) Separation or release from service of any official or employee by reason of a bona fide reorganization of any employing unit, with respect to which reorganization any such separations or releases have been approved in advance by the Governor; or
    (C) Separation or release from service of an official or employee, or failure of reappointment of an official or employee, who holds a confidential position to an appointed or elected public official, or a group of appointed or elected public officials, incurred as a result of a change of administration in the office of such appointed or elected public official, or group of appointed or elected public officials.
(h)
  (1) Except where termination is required by a sudden and unexpected loss of federal or state funds, an employer intending the discretionary termination of an official or employee shall notify the commissioner of administrative services at least 60 but not more than 120 days prior to the effective date of the discretionary termination of such official or employee. If termination is required by a sudden and unexpected loss of federal or state funds, the employer shall notify the commissioner of administrative services as soon as the employer becomes aware of the loss of funds and the termination shall be delayed until the completion of the procedures required by this subsection. Pending the completion of such procedures, the employee or official proposed for termination because of a sudden and unexpected loss of federal or state funds shall be compensated from any funds appropriated or available to the employer which may be used for such purpose. The notice shall be in writing and a copy thereof shall be forwarded to the board of trustees at the same time it is forwarded to the commissioner of administrative services. The notice shall include the following information:
    (A) The name and current annual compensation of the official or employee proposed for discretionary termination;
    (B) The age, length of service, current job description, and summary of the work experience of the official or employee proposed for discretionary termination;
    (C) The educational qualifications of the official or employee proposed for discretionary termination; and
    (D) An explanation of the reasons for the proposed discretionary termination of the official or employee.
  (2) After receipt of the notice provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the commissioner of administrative services shall schedule an interview with the official or employee proposed for discretionary termination. The interview shall be held within 15 days after receipt of the notice. Based on the interview with the official or employee proposed for discretionary termination and the information provided by the notice received by the commissioner pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, the commissioner shall contact appropriate state departments, boards, bureaus, and other agencies of the state government for the purpose of seeking continued employment for the official or employee proposed for discretionary termination. Any position for continued employment of the official or employee proposed for discretionary termination which is obtained by the commissioner shall meet the following requirements:
    (A) The annual compensation for such position shall be the same or greater than the current annual compensation of the official or employee proposed for discretionary termination;
    (B) The duties for such position shall be reasonably compatible with the previous work experience and educational qualifications of the official or employee proposed for discretionary termination;
    (C) The position shall be one which includes the holder thereof as a member of the retirement system provided for by this chapter; and
    (D) The position must be available for acceptance by the official or employee proposed for discretionary termination at least one day prior to the effective date of such termination and an offer of the position to the official or employee must be made, in writing, by not later than the day immediately preceding the effective date of the discretionary termination.
  (3) Any official or employee proposed for discretionary termination who is offered a position of continued employment in conformity with the requirements of paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be deemed to have resigned from service at his or her own choice upon the failure of such official or employee to accept the position of continued employment, and no such official or employee so resigning from service shall qualify for retirement benefits based upon involuntary separation from employment without prejudice as authorized by this Code section.
  (4) If the commissioner of administrative services fails to obtain a position of continued employment in conformity with the requirements of paragraph (2) of this subsection for an official or employee proposed for discretionary termination, then, on the effective date of the discretionary termination, the official or employee may be considered involuntarily separated from employment without prejudice for the purposes of this Code section.
  (5) The commissioner of administrative services shall notify the board of trustees in writing of the action taken by the commissioner pursuant to this subsection and of any position of continued employment which is offered to and accepted or refused by an official or employee proposed for discretionary termination.
  (6) It is the intention of this subsection to provide procedures to secure the continued employment of officials and employees who may become subject to discretionary termination, and the provisions of this subsection shall not be construed to create any right to continue in a position of employment when that right does not exist independently of this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 629,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 64, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 156,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 83,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 24,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 519,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
