# § 47-2-121. Optional retirement allowances

(a) A member may elect to convert the retirement allowance otherwise payable to him or her into a modified retirement allowance of equivalent actuarial value in accordance with one of the options set forth in subsections (b) through (e) of this Code section; provided, however, that the member may only make such election after he or she has become eligible to retire and before the first payment of his or her retirement allowance normally becomes due; provided, further, that if a member was or is unmarried at the time he or she retires and subsequently marries, such member may make such election not later than December 31, 1998, or within six months after the date of marriage, whichever date is later. If a member with a named living beneficiary dies or is determined to be mentally incompetent after becoming eligible to retire, his or her election, or option two in the absence of such election, shall be effective.
(b) Option one shall consist of a reduced retirement allowance which is payable during the life of the retired member, with the provision that if he dies before he has received in payments of his annuity the amount of his accumulated contributions at the time of his retirement, the balance of such amount shall be paid to the person, if any, nominated by him by written designation duly executed and filed with the board of trustees; otherwise such amount shall be paid to the retired member's estate.
(c) Option two shall consist of a reduced retirement allowance which is payable during the life of the retired member and which, upon his death, shall be continued at the same rate throughout the life of and paid to the person nominated by him by written designation duly executed and filed with the board of trustees at the time of his retirement.
(d) Option three shall consist of a reduced retirement allowance which is payable during the life of the retired member and which, upon his death, shall be continued at the rate of one-half the reduced retirement allowance throughout the life of and paid to the person nominated by him by written designation duly executed and filed with the board of trustees at the time of his retirement.
(e) Any other provisions of law to the contrary notwithstanding, until the first payment of any member's retirement allowance becomes payable and upon approval of the board of trustees, the member shall have the option, which shall be known as option four, to elect to convert his retirement allowance into any method of payments which he may deem necessary. Those payments shall be paid either to the member or, at his election, to any designated person, to the estate of the member, or to the estate of any designated person. Monthly payments under this option which are in excess of the member's monthly retirement allowance when computed without option shall be payable only for a period not to exceed five continuous years from the date of the first payment; and such monthly payments shall not exceed 135 percent of the member's monthly retirement allowance, when computed without option. Except in cases where years certain payments have been established for the member, no monthly allowance shall be payable to the beneficiary in an amount greater than the monthly allowance which would have been payable to the member's beneficiary under option two.
(e.1) When option two or three is elected and the spouse or child of the retired member who qualifies as a dependent under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is the person designated to receive all amounts and benefits upon the death of the retired member, option five shall consist of the added provision that in the event the spouse or dependent child predeceases the retired member, the retirement allowance payable to the retired member after the death of the spouse or dependent child shall be equal to the maximum retirement allowance which the retired member would have been entitled to receive under this chapter.
(e.2)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "retired member" means a person retired under this chapter who elected an optional allowance under this Code section with the spouse designated as the person to receive all amounts upon the death of the retired member.
  (2) In the event a designated spouse predeceases a retired member and the retired member subsequently remarries, the retired member may elect to begin receiving an actuarially reduced benefit of equivalent value and reestablish on behalf of the new spouse the same option which was applicable to the deceased former spouse, but such option on behalf of the new spouse may not be reestablished until one year after the date of remarriage or until a child of the remarried couple is born, whichever is earlier.
  (3) This subsection applies to retired members who retired at any time prior to July 1, 1992, as well as to those who retire on or after that date, and it is specifically provided that the election of option five under subsection (e.1) of this Code section is not necessary for the purposes of this subsection.
(e.3)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "retired member" means a person retired under this chapter who elected an optional allowance under this Code section with a child who qualifies as a dependent under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 designated as the person to receive all amounts upon the death of the retired member.
  (2) In the event a designated dependent child predeceases a retired member and the retired member is married or subsequently marries, the retired member may elect to begin receiving an actuarially reduced benefit of equivalent value and reestablish on behalf of the spouse the same option which was applicable to the deceased dependent child, but such option on behalf of the spouse may not be reestablished until one year after the date of the death of the dependent child or, in the case of the remarriage of the retired member, one year after the date the retired member remarries.
  (3) This subsection applies to retired members who retired at any time prior to July 1, 1996, as well as to those who retire on or after that date.
(e.4) Option six shall consist of a reduced retirement allowance together with a partial lump sum distribution. This option may be elected by any retiring member including members electing another optional allowance under this Code section except that this option shall not be available to members retiring pursuant to Code Section 47-2-123 or members subject to the requirements of subsection (e) of Code Section 47-2-120. The amount of the lump sum distribution under this subsection may not exceed the sum of 36 months of the monthly retirement allowance the retiring member would have received had he or she not elected the partial lump sum option. The partial lump sum distribution will be made as a single payment payable at the time the first monthly retirement allowance is paid to the retired member.
(f) Any provisions of this Code section to the contrary notwithstanding, any member who has elected option three may waive the payment of one-half of the reduced retirement allowance payable to the person nominated by the member by filing a written declaration of waiver with the board of trustees. The waiver of such payments to the person nominated shall not affect or increase the reduced retirement allowance payable during the life of the retired member, but such waiver shall merely act as a forfeiture of those allowances which would otherwise have been payable to the person nominated by the retired member.
(g) Any other provisions of this Code section or of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, the board of trustees may, by rule or regulation, require that when a member or a retired member dies and the beneficiary is a person other than the surviving spouse of the member, the benefits payable to the beneficiary shall be paid to the beneficiary within a definite time period immediately following the death of the member or retired member.
(h) Whenever any retired member has elected an optional allowance under this Code section and the spouse is the person designated to receive all amounts and benefits upon the death of the retired member, the retired member may revoke the election at any time after the entry of a final judgment of complete divorce from the spouse so nominated or the retired member may elect to continue the optional allowance with the former spouse designated to receive all amounts and benefits upon the death of the retired member. Upon any such revocation or upon the death of the spouse of a retired member who had elected option five, the retired member may elect to begin receiving the maximum retirement allowance which the retired member would have been entitled to receive under this chapter. In the event any such retired member remarries after divorce from the former spouse and the former spouse was not continued as a beneficiary under the optional allowance after the divorce, the retired member may elect to begin receiving the applicable actuarially reduced retirement benefit of equivalent actuarial value and reestablish on behalf of the new spouse the same option which was applicable to the former spouse, but such option on behalf of the new spouse may not be reestablished until one year after the date of remarriage or until a child of the remarried couple is born, whichever is earlier.
(i) Whenever any retired member was unmarried at the time of retirement and he or she has elected an optional allowance under this Code section and has named a designated beneficiary or beneficiaries to receive all amounts and benefits upon the death of the retired member, the retired member may revoke the election at any time after the member marries or remarries and designate the current spouse as the person to receive all amounts and benefits upon the death of the retired member. In such event, the member shall receive the applicable actuarially reduced retirement benefit of equivalent actuarial value and establish on behalf of the new spouse optional allowance two, three, four, or five, as provided in this Code section. Upon the death of such spouse or upon the entry of a final order of divorce, the provisions of subsection (h) of this Code section shall become applicable.
(j)
  (1) Upon the death of the retired member and then the death of the person designated to receive continuing retirement benefits under option two, three, four, or five, if the total monthly benefits paid to the retired member and to such person designated to receive continuing benefits, including any partial lump-sum distribution, do not equal or exceed the retired member's accumulated contributions at the time of his or her retirement, the difference shall be refunded to the person designated in writing by the retired member to receive such a refund of this difference. If no such person is designated to receive a refund of this difference, or if such designated person has predeceased the person designated to receive continuing monthly retirement benefits, or if such designees are the same person, this difference shall be paid to the estate of the person designated to receive continuing monthly retirement benefits.
  (2) Upon the death of the person designated by the retired member to receive continuing monthly retirement benefits under option two, three, four, five, or six and then the death of the retired member, if the total monthly benefits paid to the retired member prior to his or her death, including any partial lump-sum distribution, do not equal or exceed the retired member's accumulated contributions at the time of his or her retirement, the difference shall be refunded to the person designated in writing by the retired member to receive such a refund of this difference. If the person designated by the retired member to receive a refund of this difference also predeceases the retired member, or if such designees are the same person, or if no person is designated to receive a refund of this difference, this difference shall be paid to the estate of the retired member.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 14,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 14,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 14,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 11,§ 1, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 542, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 547, §§1, 2 eff. 7/1/2004.
