# § 47-2-21. Power and duty of board of trustees to administer and operate retirement system; membership of board; vacancies; expenses; oath; quorum

(a) The administration and responsibility for the proper operation of the retirement system and for effectuating this chapter are vested in the board of trustees, which shall be organized immediately after a majority of the trustees have qualified and taken the oath of office.
(b) The board of trustees shall consist of seven trustees as follows:
  (1) The state auditor, ex officio;
  (2) The state treasurer, ex officio;
  (3) The commissioner of administrative services, ex officio;
  (4) One member appointed by the Governor for a term of four years, provided that the first such term was from date of appointment to June 30, 1951;
  (5)
    (A) Two trustees elected by the trustees set forth in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this subsection for a term of four years, provided that in their first terms one served for a term from the date of election to June 30, 1950, and the other for a term from the date of election to June 30, 1952; provided, further, that each of these two members shall have had at least five years of creditable service with an agency included in this retirement system; and
    (B) In electing the two trustees identified in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the trustees set forth in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this subsection shall review and consider any individuals nominated by any organization of state retirees consisting of at least 1,000 members; and
  (6) The seventh trustee shall be a citizen of this state but not a member of the retirement system nor shall he or she hold or be a candidate for public office during his or her term of office as a trustee. He or she shall have had at least ten years of experience in the investment of moneys and shall be elected by the remaining trustees for a term of four years, provided that his or her first term was from the date of election to June 30, 1953.
(c) If a vacancy occurs in the office of a trustee, the vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment or election.
(d) The trustees may receive the daily expense allowance authorized for members of the General Assembly for each day spent attending meetings of the board of trustees and any committee meetings called pursuant to authorization of the board of trustees and for time spent in necessary travel. In addition to such amount, the trustees shall be reimbursed for all actual travel and other expenses necessarily incurred through service on the board of trustees. State officials serving ex officio shall not receive the daily expense allowance but shall be entitled to reimbursement of actual expenses.
(e) Each trustee shall, within ten days after his or her appointment or election, take an oath of office that he or she will diligently and honestly administer the affairs of the board of trustees which have been entrusted to him or her and that he or she will not knowingly violate or willingly permit to be violated any law applicable to the retirement system. The oath shall be subscribed to by the trustee, certified by the officer before whom it is taken, and filed immediately in the office of the Secretary of State.
(f) Five trustees at any meeting of the board of trustees shall constitute a quorum to transact business. Each trustee shall be entitled to one vote and four votes shall be necessary for a decision by the board of trustees.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 271,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 629,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
