# § 47-2-98. Creditable service for member who was officer or employee of Georgia Housing and Finance Authority

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Authority" means the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority established by Chapter 26 of Title 50.
  (2) "Proof of prior employment" means pay records, income tax withholding records, or other records of the authority which are sufficient to establish to the satisfaction of the board of trustees the prior employment record of an officer or employee of the authority.
(b)
  (1) Any member of this retirement system who became a member on or after July 1, 1995, and who, immediately prior to becoming a member, was an officer or employee of the authority shall, upon furnishing proof of prior employment to the board of trustees and subject to the provisions of paragraph (2) of this subsection, be eligible to receive creditable service under this retirement system for such prior service.
  (2) A member subject to this Code section shall have the option to transfer all or a portion of his or her vested interest in the pension plan maintained by the authority prior to the date he or she became a member of this retirement system to satisfy all or a portion of the cost to receive creditable service allowed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection. Any funds transferred pursuant to such option shall be credited to the officer's or employee's annuity account established by the retirement system. The member shall be authorized, but not required, to supplement such amount so transferred. The member shall receive such creditable service as the combination of funds so transferred or paid would warrant without creating any additional accrued liability of the retirement system, up to the maximum amount of creditable service allowed by paragraph (1) of this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 116,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
