# § 47-2-140. Credit for transfer to a federal agency during a national emergency; retransfer to employment under retirement system; termination of federal employment

(a) Anything in this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, an employer contribution shall be made on the account of a member who is transferred to a federal agency during a national emergency, provided that the transfer is made pursuant to an official request to the member for his services, together with a request that the employer release the member to perform national emergency services; and provided, further, that termination of the employment with the federal agency is for the purpose of returning to employment under the retirement system or entering the armed forces of the United States. This subsection shall be applicable only if certified copies of the official requests shall be filed with the retirement system at the time of transfer.
(b) Upon retransfer to employment under the retirement system, the member shall make a lump sum employee contribution through his employer to the retirement system for the period during which he was employed by the federal agency. Both this lump sum contribution and the employer contributions under subsection (a) of this Code section shall be the same as would have been contributed had the member remained in his former position and continued to make the same contributions as were made in the last month before his transfer to the federal agency. The employer contribution shall be paid from the expense fund established under Code Section 47-2-60.
(c) Upon retransfer to employment under the retirement system and payment of the employee and employer contributions for the period during which he served in the federal agency, the member shall be treated, for purposes of receiving benefits under this chapter, as if he were employed under the retirement system during such time.
(d) A member who leaves service with a federal agency under conditions other than those set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section shall upon written request be eligible for refund of contributions made by him up to the time of his transfer. No further employer contributions shall be made on the account of such a member after such termination of service.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed as meaning that any individual affected thereby is in service until he returns to employment under the retirement system.
