# § 47-2-73. Election of retirement system by members of Georgia Judicial Retirement System; effect of subsequent legislation

(a)
  (1) Any provision of this chapter or Chapter 23 of this title to the contrary notwithstanding, any member of the Georgia Judicial Retirement System who is vested for a normal retirement benefit and who without a break in service becomes the head of a state department or agency or who is appointed by the Governor to a full-time salaried position on a state board or commission may make a one time irrevocable election to remain a member of the Georgia Judicial Retirement System or to become a member of this retirement system.
  (2) If a person subject to this subsection elects to remain a member of the Georgia Judicial Retirement System, the employer and employee shall make all contributions to such retirement system and perform such other acts as are required by law or regulation.
  (3) This subsection shall be applicable to each person who was a member of the Georgia Judicial Retirement System on July 1, 2000, and to any person who becomes a member after that date. Any person eligible to make the election provided for in this subsection shall do so in writing to the board of trustees of this retirement system and the Board of Trustees of the Georgia Judicial Retirement System not later than September 30, 2000, or within 60 days after the date he or she became subject to this Code section. Once made, the election is irrevocable.
  (4) Any person subject to this subsection who elects to become a member of this retirement system may have accumulated contributions under the Georgia Judicial Retirement System transferred to this retirement system. The Board of Trustees of the Georgia Judicial Retirement System shall pay to the board of trustees of this retirement system all employer and employee contributions made by or on behalf of the member, together with regular interest. The member shall be granted only so much creditable service as such amount will warrant without creating any accrued actuarial unfunded liability as to this retirement system; provided, however, that such service credits shall not be used in determining the qualifications of a member for benefits other than vested rights or disability, death, or normal service retirement allowances.
(b) The provisions of this Code section shall not become a part of the employment contract and shall be subject to subsequent legislation; provided, however, that no person who has made the election provided by this Code section shall be affected by any subsequent legislation.
