# § 47-2-3. Employee's right to judicial review following discharge from employment

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Employee" means an employee subject to the provisions of Code Section 47-2-2 who is discharged from employment pursuant to that Code section and who is aggrieved by such discharge from employment.
  (2) "Employer" shall have the same meaning as the definition of that word provided in paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of Code Section 47-2-2.
(b) An employee shall have the right to judicial review of the employee's discharge from employment pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 47-2-2. Proceedings for judicial review may be instituted by filing a petition within 30 days after the date the employee's discharge from employment becomes final as specified in the notice sent to the employee pursuant to subsection (i) of Code Section 47-2-2. The petition may be filed in the Superior Court of Fulton County or in the superior court of the county of residence of the employee. The petition shall state the nature of the employee's interest and the grounds as specified in subsection (f) of this Code section upon which the employee contends that the employee's discharge from employment should be reversed or modified. The petition may be amended by leave of the court. The filing of the petition does not itself stay the enforcement of the employer's decision to discharge the employee, but the reviewing court may order a stay upon appropriate terms for good cause shown.
(c) Within 30 days after service of the petition or within further time allowed by the court, the employer shall transmit to the reviewing court the original or a certified copy of the entire record, which shall include the report prepared by the employer pursuant to subsection (j) of Code Section 47-2-2, of the proceedings under review. The court may require or permit subsequent corrections or additions to the record.
(d) If, before the date set for hearing, application is made to the court for leave to present additional evidence and it is shown to the satisfaction of the court that the additional evidence is material and there were good reasons for failure to present it in the hearing before the employer, the court may order that the additional evidence be taken before the employer upon conditions determined by the court. The employer may modify the employer's findings and decision to discharge the employee by reason of the additional evidence and shall file that evidence and any modifications, new findings, or decisions with the reviewing court.
(e) The review shall be conducted by the court without a jury and shall be confined to the record. In cases of alleged irregularities in procedure before the employer, not shown in the record, proof thereon may be taken in the court. The court, upon request, shall hear oral argument and receive written briefs.
(f) The court shall not substitute its judgment for that of the employer as to the weight of the evidence on questions of fact. The court may affirm the decision of the employer or remand the case for further proceedings. The court may reverse or modify the decision of the employer to discharge the employee if substantial rights of the employee have been prejudiced because the administrative findings, inferences, conclusions, or decision of the employer were:
  (1) In violation of constitutional or statutory provisions;
  (2) In excess of statutory authority of the employer;
  (3) Affected by other error of law;
  (4) Clearly erroneous in view of the reliable, probative, and substantial evidence on the whole record; or
  (5) Arbitrary or capricious or characterized by abuse of discretion or clearly unwarranted exercise of discretion.
(g) If the employee or the employer is aggrieved by a final judgment of the superior court under this Code section, either such party may obtain review of such final judgment pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 5-6-35.
