# § 47-2-244. Optional benefits available to appellate court judges; notice of election of benefits; eligibility for benefits; disability benefits; survivors benefits

(a) The term "appellate court judge," as used in this Code section, shall mean any Judge, Presiding Judge, or Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals and any Associate Justice, Presiding Justice, or Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
(b) Any other provision of law to the contrary notwithstanding, any appellate court judge shall be entitled to receive the benefits under this Code section in lieu of any retirement allowances otherwise available under this retirement system and in lieu of the appointment to or the holding of any emeritus office.
(c) Any appellate court judge who seeks benefits under this Code section shall tender to the board of trustees before January 1, 1972, or within 60 days after the commencement of such judge's term of office, whichever shall occur later, a written notice stating that the judge has elected to accept such benefits in lieu of any retirement allowances otherwise available under this retirement system and in lieu of the appointment to and the holding of any emeritus office. The notice shall state that in consideration of the payment of benefits under this Code section, such appellate court judge shall resign from office as an appellate court judge on or before the day upon which he or she attains 75 years of age or on the last day of the term in which such appellate court judge is serving when he or she attains age 70, whichever is later. Any notice filed prior to July 1, 1986, by an appellate court judge in active service on such date which contained an agreement to resign on or before such judge's seventieth birthday shall be void and of no force and effect if such judge files a new notice containing an agreement to resign as provided in this subsection and such notice is filed on or before September 1, 1986.
(d) As a condition of eligibility for benefits under this Code section, there shall have been deducted from the earnable compensation of an appellate court judge and remitted to the board of trustees a contribution equivalent to 7 1/2 percent of such judge's earnable compensation for each pay period or part thereof after the date of such judge's written notice of election of benefits. Election of benefits under this Code section constitutes an authorization and direction by that appellate court judge to the clerical personnel of such judge's court to withhold such judge's contributions and remit them to the board of trustees in the manner provided by the board of trustees, together with a sum of money available to the court from annual or supplemental appropriations in an amount sufficient to carry out this Code section.
(e) Upon compliance with this Code section, an appellate court judge may retire and receive benefits under this Code section.
(f) After ten years of service as an appellate court judge, such judge shall be entitled to receive during life a retirement benefit payable monthly equivalent to 75 percent of the salary of an appellate court judge then serving in the office from which such judge retired.
(g) An appellate court judge who is incapacitated prior to the completion of ten years of service as an appellate court judge shall receive during life for each full year of service one-tenth of the benefit such judge would have received had such judge completed ten years of service as an appellate court judge. For the purposes of this subsection, the term "incapacitated" or "incapacity" means physical or mental disability for further performance of duties and shall not mean the attainment of any certain age.
(h) The surviving spouse of an appellate court judge, provided such surviving spouse is the designated beneficiary, shall be entitled to receive a benefit payable monthly for life equivalent to 50 percent of the benefits to which the spouse would have been entitled based upon his or her years of service as an appellate court judge and without regard to whether such judge had attained age 65. However, if the designated beneficiary, or beneficiaries, is someone other than the surviving spouse of the deceased judge, then such named beneficiary or beneficiaries shall be entitled to receive a benefit payable monthly for life based on an actuarial equivalent, provided the actuarial equivalent shall not be in excess of 50 percent of the amount that would have been payable to the judge. For the purpose of this provision, in the event the beneficiary, or beneficiaries, is not the member's spouse, the actuarial equivalent shall be computed based upon the assumption that the member had a spouse who was the same age as the member.
(i) Survivors benefits shall be available to appellate court judges at prevailing contribution rates and subject to provisions of law and regulations of the board of trustees; provided, however, that no person who becomes or again becomes subject to the provisions of this Code section on or after July 1, 2009, shall be entitled to such survivors benefits.
(j) If any appellate court judge dies without having received benefits under this Code section and is not survived by a designated beneficiary who is eligible to receive the benefits provided by this Code section, such judge's contributions shall be paid to his or her estate without interest. If any appellate court judge and such judge's designated beneficiary or beneficiaries die as the result of a common accident prior to the time at which the payment of benefits to the judge equals the total contributions made by such judge plus interest thereon, the difference shall be paid to the estate of the judge. If after retirement an appellate court judge and such judge's designated beneficiary or beneficiaries die, but not as the result of a common accident, prior to the time at which the total benefits paid to the judge and such judge's beneficiary or beneficiaries equal the total contributions made by such judge plus interest thereon, the difference shall be paid to the estate of the last decedent.
(k) An appellate court judge who has accrued creditable service under this retirement system may convert such service in order to fulfill the conditions of this Code section on the basis of two years of creditable service being equivalent to one year of service credit under this Code section, provided that creditable service based upon the holding of office as an appellate court judge shall be convertible to service credit under this Code section on an equal time basis. Applications for conversion of service credits under this Code section shall be made in writing to the board of trustees.
(l) Any appellate court judge who elects to receive the benefits provided for by this Code section and who fails to resign his office as appellate court judge on or before the day such judge attains age 75 or on the last day of the term in which such appellate court judge is serving when he or she attains age 70, whichever is later, or on or before June 30, 1972, in the event he or she attained age 70 on or prior to June 30, 1972, shall not be entitled to receive any benefits under this Code section and shall forfeit all contributions made under it.
(m) No benefit shall be payable to an appellate court judge under this Code section until such judge reaches 65 years of age, except for incapacity.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 94,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2009.
