# § 47-2-110. Retirement ages; application and eligibility for a retirement allowance

(a)
  (1)
    (A) Upon written application to the board of trustees, any member in service who has reached 60 years of age or who has 30 years of creditable service may retire on a service retirement allowance, provided that he or she has at least five years of creditable service; provided, further, that if he or she became a member after July 1, 1968, he or she has at least ten years of creditable service. The effective date of retirement shall be the first of the month in which the application is received by the board of trustees, provided that no retirement application will, in any case, be effective earlier than the first of the month following the final month of the applicant's employment. Applications for retirement shall not be accepted more than 90 days in advance of the effective date of retirement. Separation from service pending approval of the retirement application shall not affect eligibility for a retirement allowance. The provisions of this subsection regarding the effective date of retirement shall apply to all persons making application for retirement on or after March 15, 1979, and to all persons who have made application prior to March 15, 1979, but to whom payments from the retirement system have not commenced as of that date. Each employer shall certify to the board of trustees the date on which the employee's employment is or will be severed.
    (B) If the employee has not reached normal retirement age on the effective date of retirement, the employer shall certify that no agreement exists to allow the employee to return to service, including service as or for an independent contractor. Any return to employment or rendering of any paid service by such employee, including service as or for an independent contractor, for any employer within two consecutive calendar months of the effective date of retirement shall render the severance invalid, nullifying the application for retirement.
  (2) Normal retirement age, for purposes of the retirement system, shall be the date the employee has reached 60 years of age, provided that he or she has at least ten years of creditable service or the age of an employee on the date he or she attains 30 years of creditable service; provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph are subject to change by future legislation in order to comply with federal regulations. For those members who are in service with the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety as an officer, noncommissioned officer, or trooper, officers and agents of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, conservation rangers of the Department of Natural Resources, or in the Department of Revenue as an alcohol and tobacco officer or agent, normal retirement age shall be the date the employee has reached 55 years of age, provided that he or she has at least ten years of creditable service. For purposes of Section 402(l) of the federal Internal Revenue Code regarding distributions from governmental plans for health and long-term care insurance for public safety officers, normal retirement age shall be the earliest date when the employee has satisfied the requirements for a retirement allowance under the retirement system. Except as provided under Article 2 of Chapter 1 of this title, a member's right to his or her retirement allowance is nonforfeitable upon attainment of normal retirement age.
(b) Reserved.
(c) The board of trustees is authorized to provide by rule or regulation for the payment of benefits to members or beneficiaries of the retirement system at a time and under circumstances not provided for in this chapter to the extent that such payment is required to maintain the retirement system as a "qualified retirement plan" for the purposes of federal income tax laws.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 510,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 264,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 455,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 455,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 275,§ 17, eff. 5/11/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 156,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 915,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 958, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
See 2002 Ga. Laws 958, § 3.
