# § 47-2-334. Service retirement allowance; calculation; employee membership contributions; employer contributions; optional membership; conditions; construction of provision

(a) Except where indicated clearly to the contrary by the context, the word "member" as used in this Code section shall mean any employee who first or again becomes a member of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia on or after July 1, 1982. From and after July 1, 1982, every person first or again becoming an employee entitled to a new membership in the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia shall become a member subject to this Code section.
(b)
  (1) Every member subject to this Code section shall, upon becoming eligible under the provisions of this chapter, be entitled to a service retirement allowance, which shall consist of:
    (A) An annuity which shall be the actuarial equivalent of the member's accumulated contributions at the time of retirement; and
    (B) A monthly pension which, together with the annuity, shall provide a total retirement allowance equal to more than 1.5 percent, but not greater than 2 percent, the actual percent to be set by the board of trustees in direct relation to the amount of increased appropriations provided by the General Assembly to fund the provisions of this paragraph, of the member's highest average monthly earnable compensation during a period of 24 consecutive calendar months while a member of the retirement system, multiplied by the number of the member's years of creditable service.
  (2) For members subject to this Code section, the calculation of retirement benefits or allowances for any other form or type of retirement shall also be based upon the calculations provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(c) From and after July 1, 1990, every member subject to this Code section shall contribute employee membership contributions in an amount not less than 1 percent nor greater than 1 1/2 percent of earnable compensation, which shall be deducted by each employer from the earnable compensation of each member for each and every payroll period and paid monthly to the board of trustees; provided, however, that any reduction in such percentage shall be based upon the recommendation of the actuary of the board of trustees, the maintenance of the actuarial soundness of the fund in accordance with the standards provided in Code Section 47-20-10 or such higher standards as may be adopted by the board, and such other factors as the board deems relevant. Of the percentage deducted from the earnable compensation of members, one-fourth of 1 percent shall be credited to the group term life insurance fund in lieu of any other deduction therefor, as provided in Code Section 47-19-10, and the remaining portion shall be credited to the individual accounts of the members in the annuity savings fund. In the event a member is not covered by group term life insurance, the entire amount deducted from the member's earnable compensation shall be credited to the member's individual account in the annuity savings fund.
(d) From and after July 1, 1982, each employer shall pay monthly to the board of trustees, on behalf and to the credit of each member subject to this Code section, employer contributions in an amount equal to the aggregate amount of employer contributions plus employee contributions made by the employer as required by this chapter for and on behalf of persons within the membership of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia who are not subject to this Code section. With respect to members subject to this Code section, none of these employer contributions shall be considered as accumulated contributions of the member and none shall be eligible for withdrawal by the member upon cessation of state service.
(e) Membership under this Code section shall be optional for any persons who are within the membership of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia on June 30, 1982. Any such persons may elect in writing on a form to be provided by the board of trustees to become a member subject to this Code section at any time on or after July 1, 1982. This written election shall be final and cannot be later changed or rescinded. Upon such election, a member shall be subject to all the provisions, terms, and conditions of this Code section; provided, however, that the calculation to determine retirement allowances for any person exercising such option shall be made as follows:
  (1) The retirement allowance shall be computed fully as if all creditable service of the member were acquired and calculated under the provisions of this Code section;
  (2) Then the retirement allowance shall also be computed fully as if all creditable service of the member were acquired and calculated under the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations of the board of trustees contained other than in this Code section;
  (3) Then, a benefit amount shall be determined based upon a fractional part of each retirement allowance computed in steps (1) and (2), which fractional part shall be computed by using the actual years of creditable service established under either this Code section, for step (1), or the provisions of this chapter contained other than in this Code section, for step (2), which number of years shall be the numerator of the fraction, over the total actual years of creditable service established under both this Code section and the provisions of this chapter contained other than in this Code section, which number shall be the denominator of the fraction;
  (4) The two benefit amounts so determined shall then be added together to produce the actual retirement allowance; and
  (5) If a member is otherwise eligible for projected years in service and unless same is made inapplicable by the conditions in subsection (f) of this Code section, projected years of service used in the determination of retirement benefits for death, disability, involuntary separation, or retirement with 34 years of service shall be used in the computation of the retirement allowances under the foregoing steps (1) and (2). However, projected years of service used in such benefits computations shall not be used in determining the fractional part or allocation of the benefit amount described in foregoing step (3).
(f) Members subject to this Code section shall be subject to the following conditions:
  (1) The provisions of subsection (d) of Code Section 47-2-120 shall not be applicable to members subject to this Code section;
  (2) Except as otherwise provided in Code Sections 47-2-204, 47-2-225, and 47-2-266, and in paragraph (3) of this subsection and except as otherwise expressly provided in this chapter, no service shall constitute creditable service except membership service for which the full rate of employee membership contributions and employer contributions is made pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of this Code section; and
  (3) The provisions of Code Section 47-2-91 shall be applicable to members subject to this Code section; provided, however, that such benefits shall be subject to reduction or repeal by subsequent legislation and shall not be considered an element of any contract of employment.
(g) All members subject to this Code section shall have and be subject to all other rights, privileges, obligations, and duties specified by other provisions of this chapter, and all such other provisions shall be of full force and effect with respect to any matter not specifically provided for in this Code section.
(h) This Code section shall not be construed and is not intended so as to have any effect whatsoever on persons within the membership of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia on June 30, 1982, who do not elect in writing to become members subject to this Code section.
(i) The provisions of this Code section shall control over conflicting or inconsistent provisions of this chapter or any other law of this state. It is the intention of the General Assembly that this Code section has not been and may not be repealed, superseded, or modified by implication through the enactment of any other law or through the amendment of any other provision of this chapter or any other existing law, and any modification or repeal of any provision of this Code section may be accomplished only by reference or amendment to or repeal of this specific Code section.
(j) The board of trustees shall cause the actuary for the retirement system to calculate the actuarial cost to the retirement system of any salary increase granted to a member in excess of 5 percent over the 12 months immediately prior to such member's retirement date and shall notify the employing unit of such amount. Such notice shall be sent not later than 60 days following such member's retirement date. The employing unit shall pay such amount, together with the cost of such actuarial calculation, as a supplemental employer contribution to the board of trustees not later than the last day of the month following receipt of such notice.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 38, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 83,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 61,§ 2, eff. 6/30/2007.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 958, § 2, eff. 7/1/2002.
See 2002 Ga. Laws 958, § 3.
