# § 47-2-96. Prior service credit; payments required to obtain credit

(a) Any member of this retirement system who was previously an active member of the Georgia Judicial Retirement System and who has not withdrawn his or her employee contributions from such retirement system may elect to have all contributions made by or on behalf of such member transferred from such retirement system to this retirement system. Any such member shall notify the board of trustees of each retirement system.
(b) Upon receipt of the notice provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section, the Board of Trustees of the Georgia Judicial Retirement System shall transfer to the board of trustees of this retirement system all employer and employee contributions paid by or on behalf of the employee, together with regular interest thereon. The member is authorized, but not required, to pay such additional amount to the board of trustees as the member desires.
(c) If a member of this retirement system has withdrawn his or her employee contributions from the Georgia Judicial Retirement System, he or she may obtain creditable service in this retirement system as provided in subsection (d) of this Code section by paying to the board of trustees of this retirement system such amount as the member desires.
(d) Upon receipt of the funds provided for in subsection (b) or (c) of this Code section, the board of trustees of this retirement system shall credit the member with only the number of years of creditable service, not to exceed the actual years of prior service, as the amount so transferred or paid shall warrant without creating any accrued liability as to this retirement system; provided, however, that no member shall be granted creditable service in excess of the service to which he or she was credited under the Georgia Judicial Retirement System.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 497,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Repealed and reserved by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 950, § 2, eff. 7/1/2002.
