# § 12-7-7.1. Erosion and sediment control plan prepared; completion; implementation

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "contractor" means the individual, firm, corporation, or combination thereof or governmental organization contracting with the Department of Transportation or State Road and Tollway Authority for the performance of prescribed work.
(b)
  (1) In addition to the requirements of Code Section 12-7-6, the Department of Transportation or the State Road and Tollway Authority after July 1, 2003, shall not contract for land-disturbing activity on any construction or maintenance project that will disturb one or more contiguous acres of land until an erosion and sediment control plan for such project has been prepared and accepted pursuant to this Code section.
  (2) Through its own forces or by means of the acquisition of professional service pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 22 of Title 50, the Department of Transportation or the State Road and Tollway Authority shall be responsible for the preparation of an erosion and sediment control plan for any construction or maintenance project as required by paragraph (1) of this subsection. Any consultant providing such professional service shall be prequalified by the Department of Transportation as a responsible bidder for the design of erosion and sediment control plans. The division shall assist the Department of Transportation in developing the prequalification approval process for purposes of this subsection.
(c) Upon completion of a proposed plan, the same shall be submitted to the division for review and comment as required by the state general permit.
(d)
  (1) All bidders for any construction or maintenance project subject to this Code section shall review and submit with their bid proposal a cost estimate as a separate bid for the implementation of the plan, it being understood that the contractor may utilize either its own personnel and resources, qualified subcontractors, or both for implementation of the plan. All contractors and subcontractors for such project shall be prequalified by the Department of Transportation as a responsible bidder for the installation of erosion and sediment control devices in accordance with a plan. The division shall assist the Department of Transportation in developing the prequalification approval process for purposes of this subsection.
  (2) The contractor for a construction or maintenance project subject to this Code section shall be responsible for implementing the plan on the awarded project. Payment to any contractor under any contract for implementing any part or all of any plan shall not be on a lump sum basis; rather, such payment shall be based upon unit prices for specific quantities of work performed pursuant to the approved erosion and sediment control plan plus any additional quantities of completed work necessitated by project conditions affecting erosion and sediment control, including without limitation soil types and weather conditions. Charges for all maintenance and cleaning of erosion and sediment control devices shall likewise be paid on a unit price basis.
(e)
  (1) Through the services of independent consultants, contractors, or subcontractors, or by its own forces, the Department of Transportation shall monitor the water quality and inspect the installation and maintenance of the best management practices in accordance with the plan. All such consultants, contractors, or subcontractors shall be prequalified by the Department of Transportation as a responsible bidder for the inspection of such best management practices and shall have the necessary expertise to determine that such practices are being installed and maintained in accordance with the plan. The division shall assist the Department of Transportation in developing the prequalification approval process for purposes of this subsection.
  (2) Proper design, installation, and maintenance of best management practices shall constitute a complete defense to any action by the director or to any other allegation of noncompliance with paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 12-7-6.
  (3) If deficiencies in the plan or installation or maintenance of best management practices are discovered during the inspection, the Department of Transportation or the State Road and Tollway Authority shall determine the appropriate corrective action. Further, the Department of Transportation or State Road and Tollway Authority may require the consultant to amend the plan or the contractor to change its procedures by change order or supplemental agreement in order to institute such changes as may be necessary to correct any errors or deficiencies in the plan, the implementation of the plan, or the maintenance of the best management practices.
  (4) The division, the Department of Transportation, or the State Road and Tollway Authority shall control or coordinate the work of its employees inspecting any project so as to prevent any delay of, interference with, or hindrance to any contractor performing land-disturbing activity on any project subject to the provisions of this Code section.
(f)
  (1) There shall be an Erosion and Sediment Control Overview Council which shall approve the Manual for Erosion and Sediment Control in Georgia prior to publication by the commission. In addition, the council shall provide guidance on the best management practices for implementing any erosion and sediment control plan for purposes of this Code section. The council shall be composed of nine members, including one member of the House of Representatives who shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and serve at the pleasure thereof; one member of the Senate who shall be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor and serve at the pleasure thereof; and seven members who shall be appointed by the Governor and serve at the pleasure thereof, including one employee each from the Department of Transportation, the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources, and the State Road and Tollway Authority, a professional engineer licensed to practice in this state from a private engineering consulting firm practicing environmental engineering, one representative of the highway contracting industry certified by the Department of Transportation, one representative of the electric utility industry, and a chairperson. The council shall meet prior to December 1, 2015, to approve the most current version of the manual and at all other times as necessary to approve any subsequent changes or updates to the manual prior to its implementation. Such meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson. Each councilmember shall receive a daily allowance in the amount specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21; provided, however, that any full-time state employee serving on the council shall draw no compensation but shall receive necessary expenses. The commissioner is authorized to pay such compensation and expenses from department funds.
  (2) The council may develop recommendations governing the preparation of plans and the installation and maintenance of best management practices. If a dispute concerning the requirements of this Code section should arise, the Erosion and Sediment Control Overview Council shall mediate the dispute.
(g) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to affect the division's authority under Article 2 of Chapter 5 of this title, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act."

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 17,§ 4, eff. 4/8/2015.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 36, § 5, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 389.
Amended by 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX5.
