# § 12-7-20. Creation of Stakeholder Advisory Board; responsibilities; procedures

(a) There shall be a Stakeholder Advisory Board to consist of not more than 13 members.
(b) Members shall be appointed by the Governor, shall serve at the pleasure thereof, and shall represent the following interests:
  (1) The division;
  (2) The commission;
  (3) Soil and water conservation districts;
  (4) The Department of Transportation;
  (5) Municipal governments;
  (6) County governments;
  (7) Public utilities;
  (8) The engineering and design community;
  (9) The construction community;
  (10) The development community;
  (11) The environmental community;
  (12) The Erosion and Sediment Control Overview Council; and
  (13) Educators.
(c) The Stakeholder Advisory Board shall elect one of its members as chairperson. The chairperson shall call all meetings of the Stakeholder Advisory Board.
(d) The Stakeholder Advisory Board shall be responsible for working together with the division and the commission to establish, evaluate, and maintain the education and training program established pursuant to Code Section 12-7-19, including but not limited to reviewing course curricula, educational materials, and exam and testing procedures; evaluating trainer and instructor qualifications; and reviewing audit results performed by the commission.
(e) The Stakeholder Advisory Board may conduct such meetings at such places and at such times as it may deem necessary or convenient to enable it to exercise fully and effectively its powers, perform its duties, and accomplish the objectives and purposes of this Code section. Meetings shall be held on the written notice of the chairperson. The notice of a meeting shall set forth the date, time, and place of the meeting. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings.
(f) A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum of the Stakeholder Advisory Board. The powers and duties of the Stakeholder Advisory Board shall be transacted, exercised, and performed only pursuant to an affirmative vote of a majority of those members present at a meeting at which a quorum is present.
(g) Members of the Stakeholder Advisory Board shall not be entitled to any compensation for the rendering of their services to the Stakeholder Advisory Board.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 36, § 5, eff. 7/1/2003.
