# § 12-7-14. Actions to restrain imminent danger; emergency orders; duration of effectiveness of orders

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, upon receipt of evidence that certain land-disturbing activities occurring in a municipality or county which is not certified pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 12-7-8 are presenting an imminent and substantial danger to the environment or to the health of humans, the director may bring an action as provided in Code Section 12-7-13 to restrain immediately any person causing or contributing to the danger caused by such land-disturbing activities or to take such other action as may be necessary.
(b) If it is not practicable to assure prompt protection of the environment or the health of humans solely by commencement of such a civil action, the director may issue such emergency orders as may be necessary to protect the environment or the health of humans who are or may be affected by such land-disturbing activities. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, such order shall be immediately effective for a period of not more than 48 hours, unless the director brings an action under subsection (a) of this Code section before the expiration of such period. Whenever the director brings such an action within such period, such order shall be effective for such period of time as may be authorized by the court pending litigation or thereafter.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 36, § 5, eff. 7/1/2003.
