# § 12-7-12. Orders directed to violators; stop work order procedures

(a) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, whenever the director has reason to believe that a violation of any provision of this chapter, any rule or regulation of the board, or any order of the director has occurred in a county or municipality which is not certified pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 12-7-8, the director may issue an order directed to such violator or violators. The order shall specify the provisions of this chapter or the rules or regulations or order alleged to have been violated and may require that land-disturbing activity be stopped until necessary corrective action and mitigation have been taken or may require that necessary corrective action and mitigation be taken within a reasonable time to be prescribed in the order. Any order issued by the director under this Code section shall be signed by the director. Any such order shall become final unless the person or persons named therein request, in writing, a hearing pursuant to Code Section 12-7-16.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, whenever a local issuing authority has reason to believe that a violation of any provision of a local ordinance or resolution has occurred within the jurisdiction of the local issuing authority, the local issuing authority may require that land-disturbing activity be stopped until necessary corrective action and mitigation have been taken or may require that necessary corrective action and mitigation be taken within a reasonable time.
(c) The following procedures shall apply to the issuances of stop work orders:
  (1) For the first and second violations of the provisions of this chapter, the director or the local issuing authority shall issue a written warning to the violator. The violator shall have five days to correct the violation. If the violation is not corrected within five days, the director or local issuing authority shall issue a stop work order requiring that land-disturbing activities be stopped until necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred; provided, however, that, if the violation presents an imminent threat to public health or waters of the state, the director or local issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop work order in lieu of a warning;
  (2) For a third and each subsequent violation, the director or local issuing authority shall issue an immediate stop work order; and
  (3) All stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred.
(d) When a violation of this chapter in the form of taking action without a permit, failure to maintain a stream buffer, or significant amounts of sediment, as determined by the local issuing authority or by the director or his or her designee, have been or are being discharged into state waters and where best management practices have not been properly designed, installed, and maintained, a stop work order shall be issued by the local issuing authority or by the director or his or her designee. All such stop work orders shall be effective immediately upon issuance and shall be in effect until the necessary corrective action or mitigation has occurred. Such stop work orders shall apply to all land-disturbing activity on the site with the exception of the installation and maintenance of temporary or permanent erosion and sediment controls.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 36, § 5, eff. 7/1/2003.
