# § 33-35-7. Grounds and procedure for revocation, suspension, or refusal to renew licenses; imposition of probation or fine; review

(a) The Commissioner may revoke, suspend, or refuse to renew the license of any sponsor when and if, after investigation, the Commissioner finds that:
  (1) Any license issued to the sponsor was obtained by fraud;
  (2) There was any misrepresentation in the application for the license;
  (3) The sponsor has otherwise shown itself untrustworthy or incompetent to act as a sponsor;
  (4) The sponsor has violated any of the provisions of this chapter or of the rules and regulations of the Commissioner;
  (5) The sponsor has misappropriated, converted, illegally withheld, or refused to pay over upon proper demand any moneys entrusted to the sponsor in its fiduciary capacity belonging to an insurer or insured; or
  (6) The sponsor is found to be in an unsound condition or in such condition as to render the future transaction of business in this state hazardous to the public.
(b) Before the Commissioner shall revoke, suspend, or refuse to renew the license of any sponsor, he shall give to that person an opportunity to be heard fully and to introduce evidence in his behalf.
(c) In lieu of revoking, suspending, or refusing to renew the license for any of the causes enumerated in subsection (a) of this Code section, after hearing as provided in this subsection the Commissioner may place the sponsor on probation for a period of time not to exceed one year or may fine the sponsor not more than $2,000.00 for each offense, or do both, when, in the Commissioner's judgment he or she finds that the public interest would not be harmed by the continued operation of the sponsor. The amount of any penalty shall be paid by such sponsor to the Commissioner for the use of the state.
(d) At any hearing provided by this Code section, the Commissioner shall have authority to administer oaths to witnesses. Anyone testifying falsely after having been administered the oath shall be subject to the penalty of perjury.
(e) Any action of the Commissioner taken pursuant to this Code section shall be subject to such review as may be provided in Chapter 2 of this title.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 119, eff. 7/1/2019.
