# § 33-35-2. Definitions

(1) "Advertising" means any communication, other than a solicitation, as defined in paragraph (5) of this Code section, to the public or any segment of the public by means of radio, television, newspaper, magazine, periodical, brochure, pamphlet, circular, or any other means, the apparent purpose or reasonable effect of which would be to convey information purporting to relate to or describe legal rights, legal services, attorneys, or prepaid legal services plans.
(2) "Insurer" means an insurer authorized to transact casualty, life, or accident and sickness insurance in this state.
(3) "Legal services" means any services normally provided by an attorney as well as the payment of court costs and related expenses incurred in the exercise of any right, but not including the payment of fines, penalties, judgments, or assessments.
(4) "Prepaid legal services plan" or "plan" means any arrangement whereby responsibility is undertaken to provide, arrange for, pay for, or reimburse any part of the cost of any legal services for a consideration consisting in part of prepaid or periodic charges or dues.
(5) "Solicitation" means any written or oral communication in person or by means of telephone, radio, television, newspaper, magazine, periodical, brochure, circular, or otherwise of any offer of coverage in a prepaid legal services plan, any invitation or request to enroll in a prepaid legal services plan, any attempt to obtain consideration for the coverage of a prepaid legal services plan, or any other device, the apparent purpose or reasonable effect of which would be to induce the recipient of such communication to enroll in or pay any consideration for the coverage provided by a prepaid legal services plan.
(6) "Sponsor" means any person, group, or fraternal or benevolent organization, including but not limited to insurers; corporations; partnerships; trusts; labor, craft, or other unions; or other entities which establish or operate prepaid legal services plans.
(7) "Subscriber" means any person who has been enrolled in a prepaid legal services plan and is entitled to receive the benefits provided in the plan.
(8) "Subscription contract" means any contract signed by an authorized representative of a prepaid legal services plan and an individual or an authorized representative of his group or employer or labor union or other entity with which he is affiliated under which the individual becomes a subscriber to the plan.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 118, eff. 7/1/2019.
