# § 42-1-1. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Board of Corrections.
(2) "Case plan" means an individualized accountability and behavior change strategy for a probationer, as applicable.
(3) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of corrections.
(4) "Criminal risk factors" means characteristics and behaviors that affect a person's risk for committing future crimes and include, but are not limited to, antisocial behavior, antisocial personality, criminal thinking, criminal associates, having a dysfunctional family, having low levels of employment or education, poor use of leisure and recreation time, and substance abuse.
(5) "Department" means the Department of Corrections.
(6) "Graduated sanctions" means:
  (A) Verbal and written warnings;
  (B) Increased restrictions and reporting requirements;
  (C) Community service or work crews;
  (D) Referral to substance abuse or mental health treatment or counseling programs in the community;
  (E) Increased substance abuse screening and monitoring;
  (F) Electronic monitoring, as such term is defined in Code Section 42-3-111; and
  (G) An intensive supervision program.
(7) "Risk and needs assessment" means an actuarial tool, approved by the board and validated on a targeted population, scientifically proven to determine a person's risk to recidivate and to identify criminal risk factors that, when properly addressed, can reduce that person's likelihood of committing future criminal behavior.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-62, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 84,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 709,§ VII-7-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
