# § 42-1-11.1. Alien prisoners eligible for deportation; cooperation with federal deportation program; waiver of extradition rights; transportation

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Alien prisoner" means a person who is not a citizen or national of the United States who is serving a sentence under the supervision of the department.
  (2) "Board" means the State Board of Pardons and Paroles.
  (3) "Department" means the Department of Corrections.
  (4) "Release on a reprieve" means being released on a reprieve with a detainer to United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement.
(b) The department and board shall establish a process and agreements among multiple state, local, and federal agencies for the implementation of the United States Immigration and Customs Enforcement Rapid Removal of Eligible Parolees Accepted for Transfer (REPAT) Program or similar federal program, by whatever name, for the purpose of deporting alien prisoners in the state prison system who are eligible for deportation.
(c) The department shall include as a part of the intake process a procedure to identify alien prisoners eligible for deportation. The department shall coordinate with the federal authorities to determine an alien prisoner's immigration status and eligibility for removal. The identity and information regarding alien prisoners eligible for deportation shall be provided expeditiously to the board, and the board shall then consider such alien prisoner for a release on a reprieve. Alien prisoners who would otherwise be ineligible for parole shall not become eligible by reason of eligibility for a release on a reprieve.
(d) Upon an alien prisoner's acceptance into the federal deportation program, the board may establish a tentative release month for the alien prisoner to be transferred into federal custody.
(e) No tentative parole release month based on a release on a reprieve shall be set until the alien prisoner is otherwise eligible for parole. No tentative parole release month shall be set for any date prior to the effective date of a final deportation removal order.
(f) The board shall provide notice and obtain acknowledgment in writing that notice was given to each alien prisoner who is eligible for a release on a reprieve that illegal reentry into the United States shall subject such alien prisoner to being returned to the custody of the department to complete the remainder of his or her court-imposed sentence. Prior to granting a release on a reprieve, the alien prisoner shall make a knowing, voluntary, and intelligent waiver in writing of all rights of extradition which would challenge the alien prisoner's parole revocation and return the alien prisoner to the department to complete the remainder of his or her sentence in the event such alien prisoner violates a condition of the release on a reprieve.
(g) An alien prisoner shall not be eligible for a release on a reprieve if the federal authorities determine that the alien prisoner's removal is not reasonably foreseeable.
(h) The department shall maintain exclusive control and responsibility for the custody and transportation of alien prisoners to and from federal facilities.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 416,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
