# § 42-1-10. Preliminary urine screen drug tests

(a) Any community supervision officer of the Department of Community Supervision or official or employee of the Department of Corrections who supervises any person covered under the provisions of paragraphs (1) through (7) of this subsection shall be exempt from the provisions of Chapter 22 of Title 31 for the limited purposes of administering a preliminary urine screen drug test to any person who is:
  (1) Incarcerated;
  (2) Released as a condition of probation for a felony or misdemeanor;
  (3) Released as a condition of conditional release;
  (4) Released as a condition of parole;
  (5) Released as a condition of provisional release;
  (6) Released as a condition of pretrial release; or
  (7) Released as a condition of control release.
(b) The Department of Corrections, Department of Community Supervision, and the State Board of Pardons and Paroles shall develop a procedure for the performance of preliminary urine screen drug tests in accordance with the manufacturer's standards for certification. Community supervision officers of the Department of Community Supervision or officials or employees of the Department of Corrections who are supervisors of any person covered under paragraphs (1) through (7) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be authorized to perform preliminary urine screen drug tests in accordance with such procedure. Such procedure shall include instructions as to a confirmatory test by a clinical laboratory certified by the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services where necessary.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 223,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-63, eff. 7/1/2015.
