# § 42-1-14. Risk assessment classification; classification as "sexually dangerous predator"; reevaluations; periodic reporting to sheriffs

(a)
  (1) The board shall determine the likelihood that a sexual offender will engage in another crime against a victim who is a minor or a dangerous sexual offense. Any sexual offender who changes residence from another state or territory of the United States or any other place to this state and who is not already designated under Georgia law as a sexually dangerous predator, sexual predator, or sexually violent predator shall have his or her required registration information forwarded by the sheriff of his or her county of registration to the board for the purpose of risk assessment classification. The board shall also make such risk assessment classification upon the request of a superior court judge for purposes of considering a petition to be released from registration requirements or residency or employment restrictions as provided for in Code Section 42-1-19.
  (2) A sexual offender shall be placed into Level I risk assessment classification, Level II risk assessment classification, or sexually dangerous predator classification based upon the board's assessment criteria and by information obtained and reviewed by the board. The sexual offender may provide the board with information, including, but not limited to, psychological evaluations, sexual history polygraph information, treatment history, and personal, social, educational, and work history. If the sexual offender has undergone treatment or supervision through the Department of Corrections or the Department of Community Supervision, such treatment records shall also be submitted to the board for evaluation. The prosecuting attorney shall provide the board with any information available to assist the board in rendering an opinion, including, but not limited to, criminal history and records related to previous criminal history and shall provide the same information to the sexual offender as was provided to the board. The board shall be authorized to obtain available information from supervision records prior to July 1, 2015, and all public records obtained and electronically retained by the State Board of Pardons and Paroles during its investigation of such sexual offender and shall provide the same information to such sexual offender as was provided to the board, but if such records are classified as confidential state secrets, such records shall remain confidential state secrets in accordance with Code Section 42-9-53 and shall not be made available to any other person or entity or be subject to subpoena unless declassified by the State Board of Pardons and Paroles. Any person divulging or causing to be divulged any confidential state secret shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. The clerk of the court of the appropriate jurisdiction where the sexual offender resides shall send a copy of the order seeking classification for purposes of sentencing and a copy of the sexual offender's conviction to the board and notify the board that a sexual offender's risk assessment evaluation will need to be performed. The board shall render its recommendation for risk assessment classification within:
    (A) Sixty days of receipt of a request for a risk assessment evaluation if the sexual offender is being sentenced pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 17-10-6.2 or as part of a presentence investigation pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 42-8-34;
    (B) Six months prior to the sexual offender's proposed release from confinement if the offender is incarcerated;
    (C) Sixty days of receipt of the required registration information from the sheriff when the sexual offender changes residence from another state or territory of the United States or any other place to this state and is not already classified;
    (D) Sixty days if the sexual offender is sentenced to a probated or suspended sentence; and
    (E) Ninety days if such classification is requested by the court pursuant to a petition filed under Code Section 42-1-19.
  (3) The board shall notify the sexual offender by first-class mail of its determination of risk assessment classification and shall send a copy of such classification to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Corrections, the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, the Department of Community Supervision, the sheriff of the county in which the sexual offender is registered, and to counsel for the sexual offender and the sentencing court, if applicable.
(b) If the board determines that a sexual offender should be classified as a Level II risk assessment classification or as a sexually dangerous predator, the sexual offender may petition the board to reevaluate his or her classification. To file a petition for reevaluation, the sexual offender shall be required to submit his or her written petition for reevaluation to the board within 30 days from the date of the letter notifying the sexual offender of his or her classification. The sexual offender shall have 120 days from the date of the notification letter to submit information as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section in support of such sexual offender's petition for reevaluation. If the sexual offender fails to submit the petition or supporting documents within the time limits provided, the classification shall be final. The board shall notify the sexual offender by first-class mail of its decision on the petition for reevaluation of risk assessment classification and shall send a copy of such notification to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Corrections, the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, the Department of Community Supervision, the sheriff of the county in which the sexual offender is registered, and to counsel for the sexual offender and the sentencing court, if applicable. The sexual offender may request reevaluation after ten years following his or her initial classification and no more than once every five years thereafter.
(c) A sexual offender who is classified by the board as a Level II risk assessment classification or as a sexually dangerous predator may file a petition for judicial review of his or her classification within 30 days of the date of the notification letter or, if the sexual offender has requested reevaluation pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, within 30 days of the date of the letter denying the petition for reevaluation. The petition for judicial review shall name the board as defendant, and the petition shall be filed in the superior court of the county in which the offices of the board are located. Within 30 days after service of the appeal on the board, the board shall submit a summary of its findings to the court and mail a copy, by first-class mail, to the sexual offender. The findings of the board shall be considered prima-facie evidence of the classification. The court shall also consider any relevant evidence submitted, and such evidence and documentation shall be mailed to the parties as well as submitted to the court. The court shall hold a hearing to determine the issue of classification. The court may uphold the classification of the board, or, if the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the sexual offender is not placed in the appropriate classification level, the court shall place the sexual offender in the appropriate risk assessment classification. The court's determination shall be forwarded by the clerk of the court to the board, the sexual offender, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, the Department of Corrections, the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, and the Department of Community Supervision, and the sheriff of the county in which the sexual offender is registered, and counsel for the sexual offender, if applicable.
(d) Any individual who was classified as a sexually violent predator prior to July 1, 2006, shall be classified as a sexually dangerous predator on and after July 1, 2006.
(e) In addition to the requirements of registration for all sexual offenders, a sexually dangerous predator shall report in person to the sheriff of the county in which such predator resides six months following his or her birth month and update or verify his or her required registration information.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 347,§ 6-3, eff. 5/4/2023.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 8-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-66, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 333,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 715,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 42, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 42, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 389,§ 12, eff. 5/20/2010.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 571,§ 24, eff. 7/1/2006.
