# § 42-1-15. Restriction on registered sexual offenders residing, working, or loitering within certain distance of child care facilities, churches, schools, or areas where minors congregate; penalties

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Individual" means a person who is required to register pursuant to Code Section 42-1-12.
  (2) "Lease" means a right of occupancy pursuant to a written and valid lease or rental agreement.
  (3) "Minor" means any person who is under 18 years of age.
  (4) "Volunteer" means to engage in an activity in which one could be, and ordinarily would be, employed for compensation, and which activity involves working with, assisting, or being engaged in activities with minors; provided, however, that such term shall not include participating in activities limited to persons who are 18 years of age or older or participating in worship services or engaging in religious activities or activities at a place of worship that do not include supervising, teaching, directing, or otherwise participating with minors who are not supervised by an adult who is not an individual required to register pursuant to Code Section 42-1-12.
(b) On and after July 1, 2008, no individual shall reside within 1,000 feet of any child care facility, church, school, or area where minors congregate if the commission of the act for which such individual is required to register occurred on or after July 1, 2008. Such distance shall be determined by measuring from the outer boundary of the property on which the individual resides to the outer boundary of the property of the child care facility, church, school, or area where minors congregate at their closest points.
(c)
  (1) On and after July 1, 2008, no individual shall be employed by or volunteer at any child care facility, school, or church or by or at any business or entity that is located within 1,000 feet of a child care facility, a school, or a church if the commission of the act for which such individual is required to register occurred on or after July 1, 2008. Such distance shall be determined by measuring from the outer boundary of the property of the location at which such individual is employed or volunteers to the outer boundary of the child care facility, school, or church at their closest points.
  (2) On or after July 1, 2008, no individual who is a sexually dangerous predator shall be employed by or volunteer at any business or entity that is located within 1,000 feet of an area where minors congregate if the commission of the act for which such individual is required to register occurred on or after July 1, 2008. Such distance shall be determined by measuring from the outer boundary of the property of the location at which the sexually dangerous predator is employed or volunteers to the outer boundary of the area where minors congregate at their closest points.
(d) Notwithstanding any ordinance or resolution adopted pursuant to Code Section 16-6-24 or subsection (d) of Code Section 16-11-36, it shall be unlawful for any individual or for any person who is or should be registered on another state's sexual offender registry to loiter, as prohibited by Code Section 16-11-36, at any child care facility, school, or area where minors congregate.
(e)
  (1) If an individual owns or leases real property and resides on such property and a child care facility, church, school, or area where minors congregate thereafter locates itself within 1,000 feet of such property, or if an individual has established employment at a location and a child care facility, church, or school thereafter locates itself within 1,000 feet of such employment, or if a sexual predator has established employment and an area where minors congregate thereafter locates itself within 1,000 feet of such employment, such individual shall not be guilty of a violation of subsection (b) or (c) of this Code section, as applicable, if such individual successfully complies with subsection (f) of this Code section.
  (2) An individual owning or leasing real property and residing on such property or being employed within 1,000 feet of a prohibited location, as specified in subsection (b) or (c) of this Code section, shall not be guilty of a violation of this Code section if such individual had established such property ownership, leasehold, or employment prior to July 1, 2008, and such individual successfully complies with subsection (f) of this Code section.
(f)
  (1) If an individual is notified that he or she is in violation of subsection (b) or (c) of this Code section, and if such individual claims that he or she is exempt from such prohibition pursuant to subsection (e) of this Code section, such individual shall provide sufficient proof demonstrating his or her exemption to the sheriff of the county where the individual is registered within ten days of being notified of any such violation.
  (2) For purposes of providing proof of residence, the individual may provide a driver's license, government issued identification, or any other documentation evidencing where the individual's habitation is fixed. For purposes of providing proof of property ownership, the individual shall provide a copy of his or her warranty deed, quitclaim deed, or voluntary deed, or other documentation evidencing property ownership.
  (3) For purposes of providing proof of a leasehold, the individual shall provide a copy of the applicable lease agreement. Leasehold exemptions shall only be for the duration of the executed lease.
  (4) For purposes of providing proof of employment, the individual may provide an Internal Revenue Service Form W-2, a pay check, or a notarized verification of employment from the individual's employer, or other documentation evidencing employment. Such employment documentation shall evidence the location in which such individual actually carries out or performs the functions of his or her job.
  (5) Documentation provided pursuant to this subsection may be required to be date specific, depending upon the individual's exemption claim.
(g) Any individual who knowingly violates this Code section shall be guilty of a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than ten nor more than 30 years.
(h) Nothing in this Code section shall create, either directly or indirectly, any civil cause of action against or result in criminal prosecution of any person, firm, corporation, partnership, trust, or association other than an individual required to be registered under Code Section 42-1-12.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 171,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 389,§ 13, eff. 5/20/2010.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 582,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 582,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 571,§ 24, eff. 7/1/2006.
