# § 47-3-68. Membership of eligible university system employees

(a)
  (1) The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to persons employed prior to July 1, 2008. As used in this Code section, the term "eligible university system employee" means faculty and principal administrators employed by the University System of Georgia, as designated by regulations of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia, who are:
    (A) Employed on or after July 1, 1990, and are eligible for membership in the retirement system provided for in this chapter as of the date of employment; or
    (B) Members of the retirement system provided for in this chapter on July 1, 1990, with less than ten years of creditable service on that date.
  (2) The provisions of this paragraph shall apply to persons first or again employed on or after July 1, 2008. As used in this Code section, the term "eligible university system employee" means faculty members or exempt employees within the meaning of the federal Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938, as amended, 29 U.S.C. Section 201, et seq., who are eligible for membership in the retirement system provided for in this chapter as of the date of such employment.
(b) Any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, any eligible university system employee may withdraw from or decline membership in the retirement system provided for in this chapter and participate in the optional retirement plan provided for in Chapter 21 of this title as provided in this Code section.
(c) Members of the retirement system provided for in this chapter who were eligible university system employees on July 1, 1990, shall have the option to withdraw from this retirement system and participate in the optional retirement plan provided for in Chapter 21 of this title. Members exercising said option, which shall be irrevocable, shall forfeit all rights under this retirement system except that they shall have the right to have their accumulated contributions under this retirement system transferred to the optional retirement plan. Upon such election's becoming effective, the board of trustees shall transfer the member's accumulated contributions directly to the optional retirement plan to purchase benefits thereunder and the funds so transferred will not be made available to the member except as a participant in the optional retirement plan. The option provided for in this Code section shall be exercised by filing a written notification thereof with the board of trustees and with the employer by not later than July 31, 1991. The effective date of the option and transfer for each member who elects to become a new participant in the optional retirement plan shall be August 1, 1991. The failure to exercise the option by July 31, 1991, shall be an irrevocable election to remain a member of this retirement system.
(d) Eligible university system employees employed on or after July 1, 1990, shall, within 30 days immediately following the effective date of their employment, make an irrevocable decision to be a member of this retirement system or participate in the optional retirement plan provided for in Chapter 21 of this title; provided, however, that such employees employed on or after July 1, 1995, shall make such irrevocable decision within 60 days immediately following the effective date of their employment. A written statement of the decision shall be filed with the employer and with the board of trustees and shall be effective from the date of employment. If an eligible university system employee fails to file a statement of decision provided for in this subsection, such failure shall be an irrevocable election to become a member of the retirement system provided for in this chapter.
(e) Any former member of this retirement system who is presently a participant in the optional retirement plan provided for in Chapter 21 of this title shall have the right to have the former member's accumulated contributions to this retirement system transferred to said optional retirement plan. Such right shall be exercised by filing a written notification thereof with the board of trustees by not later than July 31, 1991. After receiving such notification, the board of trustees shall, by not later than October 1, 1991, transfer the former member's accumulated contributions directly to the optional retirement plan to purchase benefits thereunder and the funds so transferred will not be made available to the former member except as a participant in the optional retirement plan.
(f) Any member of this retirement system who was employed on July 1, 2004, as an assistant coach by the athletic department of a state university may make an irrevocable decision to participate in the optional retirement plan provided by Chapter 21 of this title. Such election shall be made to the employer and the board of trustees not later than August 31, 2004. The board of trustees shall transfer to such member's account in such optional retirement plan all employer and employee contributions made by or on behalf of such member together with regular interest thereon.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 500,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 510, § 1, eff. July 1, 2004..
See 2008 Ga. Laws 500, § 3.
