# § 47-3-126.1. Postretirement benefit adjustments effective July 1, 1984

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "beneficiary" shall have the meaning specified in paragraph (7) of Code Section 47-3-1 and shall also mean and include any retired public school teacher who retired pursuant to any county, municipal, or local board of education retirement or pension system.
(b) Subject to the limitations of subsection (c) of this Code section, effective July 1, 1984, the monthly retirement benefit of each beneficiary shall be increased by a percentage which varies in accordance with the time of retirement as follows: Time of RetirementPercentage IncreasePrior to July 1, 1964 ...................................20.0July 1, 1964, through June 30, 1965 ...................................19.5July 1, 1965, through June 30, 1966 ...................................18.0July 1, 1966, through June 30, 1967 ...................................16.5July 1, 1967, through June 30, 1968 ...................................15.0July 1, 1968, through June 30, 1969 ...................................13.5July 1, 1969, through June 30, 1970. ..................................12.0July 1, 1970, through June 30, 1971 ...................................10.5July 1, 1971, through June 30, 1972 ...................................9.0July 1, 1972, through June 30, 1973 ...................................7.5July 1, 1973, through June 30, 1974 ...................................6.0July 1, 1974, through June 30, 1975 ...................................5.0July 1, 1975, through June 30, 1976 ...................................4.0July 1, 1976, through June 30, 1977 ...................................3.0July 1, 1977, through June 30, 1978 ...................................2.0July 1, 1978, through June 30, 1980 ...................................1.0After June 30, 1980 ...................................0
(c) The full percentage increase provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section shall apply only to those beneficiaries who had 20 or more years of creditable service at the time of retirement. For those beneficiaries who had at least ten but less than 20 years of creditable service at the time of retirement, the monthly benefit increase provided for by subsection (b) of this Code section shall be reduced by 5 percent for each year less than 20 years of creditable service. Beneficiaries who had less than ten years of creditable service shall not receive an increase in their monthly retirement benefit under this Code section. No retirement benefit shall exceed $1,500.00 per month as a result of an increase in the monthly retirement benefit under this Code section.
(d) The implementation of the monthly retirement benefit increases provided for by this Code section shall be contingent upon appropriations by the General Assembly specifically for the purpose of funding the provisions of this Code section. In the event the General Assembly appropriates an amount which is insufficient to fund fully the benefit increases provided for by this Code section, the benefit increases shall be reduced pro rata in accordance with the amount actually appropriated, and, in that event, the provisions of this Code section shall remain effective until, in subsequent annual appropriations, the benefit increases provided for in this Code section are fully funded and implemented. When fully funded and implemented, this Code section shall not provide any authority for the board of trustees to grant additional postretirement benefit adjustments, but this Code section shall not supersede or repeal the authority granted to the board of trustees by Code Section 47-3-126.
