# § 47-3-26. Powers and duties of the board of trustees generally

(a) The administration and responsibility for the proper operation of the retirement system and for placing this chapter into effect are vested in the board of trustees, which shall be organized immediately after a majority of the trustees provided for in Code Section 47-3-21 have qualified and taken the oath of office.
(b) Subject to the limitations of this chapter, the board of trustees may from time to time establish rules and regulations for the administration of the funds created by this chapter and for the transaction of its business.
(c) The board of trustees shall engage such actuarial and other services as shall be required to transact the business of the retirement system.
(d) The compensation of all persons engaged by the board of trustees under subsection (c) of this Code section and all other expenses of the board necessary for the operation of the system shall be paid at such rates and in such amounts as the board of trustees shall approve.
(e) The board of trustees shall keep in convenient form such data as shall be necessary for actuarial valuations of the various funds of the retirement system and for checking the experience of the retirement system.
(f) The board of trustees shall keep a record of all of its proceedings, which shall be open to public inspection.
(g) The board of trustees shall publish an annual report showing the fiscal transactions of the retirement system for the preceding year, the amount of the accumulated cash and securities of the retirement system, and the last balance sheet showing the financial condition of the retirement system, by means of an actuarial valuation of the contingent assets and liabilities of the retirement system.
