# § 34-8-165. Tax and wage reports; penalty for failure to file; fraudulent reports

(a)
  (1) In accordance with such regulations as the Commissioner may prescribe, tax and wage reports shall become due and be filed by each employer on or before the last day of the month next following the end of the calendar quarter to which such reports apply.
  (2) With respect to employers as defined in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 34-8-33, the Commissioner shall provide by regulation for such tax and wage reports to be filed on an annual rather than on a quarterly basis in accordance with federal law. No penalty shall be due for such reports which are filed in the manner and within the time period prescribed by the Commissioner.
  (3) Such reports shall list the name, social security number, the amount of wages paid each employee by such employer, and any other information the Commissioner may require.
(b) Any employer who fails to file a tax and wage report on or before the due date as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be penalized in the sum of $20.00 or .05 percent of total wages, whichever is greater, for each month or fraction of a month such report remains delinquent. Such penalty assessments shall be due and payable in the same manner as delinquent contributions. Penalty collection shall be enforced under procedures established by this chapter.
(c) In the discretion of the Commissioner, the imposition of a penalty may be waived. Inadvertent, unavoidable, or unintentional errors or omissions in a tax and wage report which is filed in due time shall not subject the employer to the imposition of the penalty provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(d) Fraudulent reports, including intentional errors or omissions, shall also be subject to the criminal provisions provided in Code Section 34-8-256.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 904, § 2, eff. 5/14/2002.
