# § 34-8-43. Most recent employer

(a) As used in this chapter and except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, the term "most recent employer" means, for claims with benefit years that begin on or after July 1, 2015, the last employer for whom an individual worked.
(b) As used in this chapter and except as otherwise provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, the term "most recent employer" means, for claims with benefit years that begin on or before June 30, 2015, the last liable employer for whom an individual worked and:
  (1) The individual was separated from work for a disqualifying reason;
  (2) The individual was released or separated from work under nondisqualifying conditions and earned wages of at least ten times the weekly benefit amount of the claim; or
  (3) The employer files the claim for the individual by submitting such reports as authorized by the Commissioner.
(c) Where no employer in subsection (b) of this Code section meets the definition of most recent employer from the beginning of the base period to the date the claim is filed, the last liable employer for whom the individual worked shall be considered as the most recent employer for determining eligibility for benefits.
(d) Where periods of employment with the same liable employer fail, independently, to meet the definition of most recent employer in subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section, such periods of employment may be used cumulatively to determine the most recent employer and eligibility for benefits shall be determined by the reason for separation from the last employment with such employer.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 113,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2015.
