# § 34-8-162. Establishment, administration, and contents of cash deposit escrow fund; deposit in and withdrawals from fund

(a) There is established as a trust fund, separate and apart from all other public moneys or other funds of this state, a cash deposit escrow fund, which shall be administered by the Commissioner in accordance with such regulations as he or she may prescribe. This fund shall consist of all moneys deposited by employers with the Commissioner pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of Code Section 34-8-160 and all interest thereon.
(b) The Commissioner shall be custodian of the fund and shall administer it in accordance with such regulations as the Commissioner shall prescribe. All moneys payable to the fund shall, upon receipt thereof by the Commissioner, immediately be deposited in the fund. All moneys in this fund shall be deposited in a bank or public depository in which general funds of the state may be deposited, except that moneys in this fund shall not be commingled with other state funds but shall be maintained in a separate account on the books of the depository bank. Such moneys shall be secured by the depository bank to the same extent and in the same manner as required by the general depository laws of this state; and collateral pledged for this purpose or bonds given for this purpose shall be kept separate and distinct from any collateral pledged to secure the other funds of the state. The Commissioner shall be liable on his or her official bond for the faithful performance of duties in connection with the cash deposit escrow fund. All sums recovered on any surety bond for losses sustained by the cash deposit escrow fund shall be deposited in said fund.
(c)
  (1) Moneys shall be withdrawn from the cash deposit escrow fund solely for the purpose of satisfying any delinquent payments in lieu of contributions owed by an organization or groups of organizations pursuant to Code Section 34-8-158. Withdrawals from the cash deposit escrow fund shall be made in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Commissioner and shall not exceed the total amount deposited in the cash deposit escrow fund by each such organization or group of organizations.
  (2) Any interest which may accrue as the result of deposits to the cash deposit escrow fund shall, in the discretion of the Commissioner, be withdrawn to the extent necessary to cover deficiencies in the reimbursement account which have not been provided for by the escrow funds. Such withdrawal shall not exceed interest accrued in the cash deposit escrow fund. Interest not used for such purpose shall be retained in the cash deposit escrow fund.
