# § 34-8-272. Definitions

(1) "Accounts receivable" means an amount of unemployment contribution, tax, administrative assessment, reimbursement in lieu of contributions, penalty, or interest which has been recorded as due and entered in the account records or any ledger maintained in the department, or which an employer should reasonably expect to become due as a direct or indirect result of any pending or completed audit or investigation, which an employer knows is being conducted by any federal, state, or local taxing authority.
(2) "Employer" means any individual, partnership, joint venture, association, limited liability company, corporation, receiver, trustee, guardian, executor, administrator, fiduciary, or any other entity of any kind subject to any unemployment tax, contribution, or reimbursement in lieu of contributions, or any person required to collect any such unemployment tax, contribution, or reimbursement in lieu of contributions under this chapter, and as further defined in Code Section 34-8-33. The term shall also include any individual who has been deemed personally liable for the debt under the authority of Code Section 34-8-167.
(3) "Final, due, and owing" means an assessment of unemployment contributions which has become final and is owed to the state due to either the expiration of the employer's appeal rights or, in the case of an assessment which has been appealed, either pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," or pursuant to Code Section 34-8-220, the rendition of the final order by the Commissioner or by any court of this state. Assessments that have been appealed shall be final, due, and owing 15 days after the last unappealed or unappealable order sustaining the assessment or any part thereof has become final. Assessments that have not been appealed shall be final, due, and owing 15 days after service of notice of assessment pursuant to Code Section 34-8-170.
(4) "Unemployment tax" shall include any unemployment tax or contribution, administrative assessment, or reimbursement in lieu of contributions or recording costs incurred thereon.
