# § 34-8-160. Surety bond required

(a) Authority to require surety bond. For the purposes of this Code section, a surety bond is a bond of surety issued by an organization licensed and authorized to issue such bond in the State of Georgia. In the discretion of the Commissioner, any organization that elects to become liable for payments in lieu of contributions shall be required, within 30 days after the effective date of its election, to execute and file with the Commissioner a cash deposit or surety bond approved by the Commissioner. In the sole discretion of the Commissioner, the department may secure such bonds and defray all or any portion of such cost to the employers covered under the bond. In the event the Commissioner elects to require any organization to execute and file a cash deposit or surety bond, the amount of such deposit or surety bond shall be determined in accordance with the provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) Amount; renewal; deposit.
  (1) Amount of surety bond. The amount of the surety bond or cash deposit required by subsection (a) of this Code section shall be equal to 2.7 percent of the organization's taxable wages paid for employment, as defined in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 34-8-49, for the four calendar quarters immediately preceding the effective date of the election, the renewal date in the case of a surety bond, or a biennial anniversary of the effective date of election in the case of a deposit of money, whichever date shall be most recent and applicable. If the organization did not pay wages in each of such four calendar quarters, the amount of the surety bond or cash deposit shall be as determined by the Commissioner.
  (2) Renewal of bond; adjustments. Any surety bond deposited under this subsection shall be in force for a period of not less than two full calendar years and shall be renewed, with the approval of the Commissioner, at such times as the Commissioner may prescribe but not less frequently than at two-year intervals as long as the organization continues to be liable for payments in lieu of contributions. The Commissioner shall require adjustments to be made in a previously filed bond as deemed appropriate. If the bond is to be increased, the adjusted bond shall be filed by the organization within 30 days of the date notice of the required adjustment was mailed or otherwise delivered to it. Failure by any organization covered by such bond to pay the full amount of payments in lieu of contributions when due, together with any applicable interest and penalties, shall render the surety liable on said bond to the extent of the bond as though the surety were such organization.
  (3) Deposit of money. Any deposit of money in accordance with this subsection shall be retained by the Commissioner in an escrow account until liability under the election is terminated, at which time it shall be returned to the organization less any deductions as provided in this paragraph. The Commissioner may deduct the amount necessary to satisfy any delinquent payments in lieu of contributions and any applicable interest, penalties, and costs as provided in Code Section 34-8-159 from the cash deposit required of an organization under this subsection. The Commissioner shall require the organization, within 30 days following any deduction from a cash deposit under the provisions of this paragraph, to deposit sufficient additional moneys to bring the organization's funds in escrow to the prior level. The Commissioner may at any time review the adequacy of the deposit made by any organization. If as a result of such review the Commissioner determines that an adjustment is necessary, the Commissioner shall require the organization to make additional deposits within 30 days of written notice of the determination or shall return to it such portion of the deposit that is no longer considered necessary, whichever action is appropriate.
  (4) Failure to make security deposit. If any organization subject to this subsection fails to file a surety bond, make a cash deposit, file a surety bond in an increased amount, or increase the amount of a previously made cash deposit as provided under this Code section, the Commissioner may terminate such organization's election to make payments in lieu of contributions and such termination shall continue for not less than the eight consecutive calendar quarter periods beginning with the quarter in which such termination becomes effective; provided, however, that the Commissioner may in his or her discretion extend the posting of a cash deposit, the filing of a surety bond, or the extension of an adjustment period by not more than 30 days.
  (5) Deposit of securities. The Commissioner may allow the deposit of securities acceptable to him or her in lieu of either the cash deposit or surety bond referenced in this Code section. The value of securities deposited shall be in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Commissioner.
