# § 34-8-279. Collection fees

(a) In addition to all other penalties provided under this chapter or any other law, the Commissioner may by regulation impose after the expiration of the unemployment tax amnesty period a cost of collection fee of 20 percent of any deficiency assessed for any taxable period ending or transactions occurring after December 31, 1994. This fee shall be in addition to all other applicable penalties, fees, or costs. The Commissioner shall have the right to waive any collection fee when it is demonstrated that any deficiency of the employer was not due to negligence, intentional disregard of administrative rules and regulations, or fraud.
(b) In addition to all other penalties provided under this chapter or any other law, the Commissioner may by regulation impose after the expiration of the unemployment tax amnesty period a cost of collection fee of 50 percent of any deficiency for taxable periods ending or transactions occurring on or before December 31, 1994, regardless of when due. This fee shall be in addition to all other applicable penalties, fees, or costs. The Commissioner shall have the right to waive any collection fee when it is demonstrated that any deficiency of the employer was not due to negligence, intentional disregard of administrative rules and regulations, or fraud.
(c) The provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section shall not apply to any account or accounts receivable which has been protested pursuant to Code Section 34-8-167 or 34-8-170 as of the expiration of the unemployment tax amnesty period or to any account or accounts receivable on which the employer is remitting timely payments under a payment agreement negotiated with the Commissioner prior to or during the amnesty period.
(d) The fee levied under subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section shall not apply to unemployment taxes paid pursuant to the terms of the amnesty program.
