# § 34-8-175. Payment of contributions when employing unit sells or transfers business or stock of goods

Any employing unit which sells or transfers its business or stock of goods shall file all required tax and wage reports and pay all contributions, administrative assessments, interest, and penalties within 30 days after such sale or transfer. Such reports and payments shall include all wages for employment up to the date of the sale or transfer. The purchaser, transferee, successor, or assignee shall withhold a sufficient amount from the purchase money to cover the amount of all contributions, administrative assessments, interest, and penalties due and unpaid by the seller or transferor. If the seller or transferor fails to make required payments within the 30 days specified, then the purchaser, transferee, successor, or assignee shall pay the money so withheld. If the purchaser, transferee, successor, or assignee fails to do so, it shall become liable for such contributions, administrative assessments, interest, and penalties. After 30 days the purchaser, transferee, or successor will also become jointly and severally responsible with the predecessor for filing of any delinquent reports. If the payment of moneys is not involved in the sale or transfer, such purchaser shall withhold the performance of the condition that constitutes the consideration for the transfer until the Commissioner certifies that all reports have been filed and all contributions, administrative assessments, interest, and penalties have been paid.
