# § 34-8-150. Payment of contributions by employers; deferral of de minimis amounts

(a) Contributions shall accrue from each employer for each calendar year in which the employer is subject to this chapter with respect to wages payable for employment, except as provided in Code Sections 34-8-158 through 34-8-162. Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, such contributions shall become due and be paid before the last day of the month next following the end of the calendar quarter to which they apply, in accordance with such regulations as the Commissioner may prescribe; provided, however, that with respect to employers as defined in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 34-8-33, the Commissioner shall provide by regulation that such contributions shall become due and be paid on an annual basis not later than such date as shall be prescribed by resolution of the Commissioner. Such contributions shall become delinquent if not paid when due and shall not be deducted, in whole or in part, from the wages of individuals in such employer's employ.
(b)
  (1) For calendar quarters beginning on or after July 1, 2009, when the combined amount of contributions under this Code section and assessments under Code Section 34-8-180 or 34-8-181 due from an employer for any calendar quarter does not exceed $5.00, such amount may be regarded as a de minimis amount with respect to that calendar quarter.
  (2) Payment of such de minimis amount for such calendar quarter, otherwise due before the last day of the month next following the end of the calendar quarter, may be deferred, at the option of the employer, until the January 31 reporting date next following, if the employer:
    (A) Files all quarterly wage and tax reports, including a report of such de minimis amount due;
    (B) Timely pays all other amounts due; and
    (C) Makes full payment of any deferred de minimis amount by the January 31 report date next following.
  (3) In the event that an employer fails to comply with paragraph (2) of this subsection, any such deferred de minimis amount shall become delinquent as of the date originally due under this Code section and Code Section 34-8-165, 34-8-180, or 34-8-181, as applicable, and the employer shall be subject to all the provisions thereof.
(c) In the payment of any contributions, a fractional part of a cent shall be disregarded unless it amounts to one-half cent or more, in which case it shall be increased to one cent.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 49,§ 2, eff. 4/21/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 904, § 1, eff. 5/14/2002.
