# § 34-8-199. Definitions; disclosure; withholding uncollected overissuance

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Uncollected overissuance" has the same meaning as provided in 7 U.S.C. Section 2022(c)(1).
  (2) "Unemployment compensation" means any compensation payable under this chapter including amounts payable by the Commissioner pursuant to an agreement under any federal law providing for compensation, assistance, or allowances with respect to unemployment.
(b) An individual filing a new claim for unemployment compensation shall, at the time of filing such claim, disclose whether or not he or she owes an uncollected overissuance of food stamp coupons. The Commissioner shall notify the Department of Human Services or the successor state food stamp agency enforcing such obligation of any individual who discloses that he or she owes such uncollected overissuance and who is determined to be eligible for unemployment compensation.
(c) The Commissioner shall deduct and withhold from any unemployment compensation payable to an individual who owes an uncollected overissuance:
  (1) The amount specified by the individual to the Commissioner to be deducted and withheld as provided by this Code section;
  (2) The amount, if any, determined pursuant to an agreement submitted to the Department of Human Services or the successor state food stamp agency under 7 U.S.C. Section 2022(c)(3)(A); or
  (3) Any amount otherwise required to be deducted and withheld from unemployment compensation pursuant to 7 U.S.C. Section 2022(c)(3)(B).
(d) Any amount deducted and withheld pursuant to this Code section shall be paid by the Commissioner to the Department of Human Services or the successor state food stamp agency.
(e) Any amount deducted and withheld under subsection (d) of this Code section shall for all purposes be treated as if it were paid to the individual as unemployment compensation and paid by such individual to the Department of Human Services or the successor state food stamp agency as repayment of the individual's uncollected issuance.
(f) This Code section applies only if arrangements have been made for reimbursement by the Department of Human Services or the successor state food stamp agency for the administrative costs incurred by the Commissioner under this Code section which are attributable to the repayment of uncollected overissuances to the Department of Human Services or the successor state food stamp agency.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
