# § 34-8-125. Access to information or records by governmental agencies; penalty for violation

(a) Governmental agencies, including law enforcement agencies, prosecuting agencies, and the executive branch, whether state, local, or federal, shall have access to information or records deemed private and confidential under this article if the information or records are needed by the agency for official purposes and:
  (1) The agency submits an application in writing to the department for the records or information containing a statement of the official purposes for which the information or records are needed and specific identification of the records or information sought from the department;
  (2) The commissioner, chief executive, or other responsible official of the requesting agency has verified the need for the specific information in writing either on the application or on a separate document; and
  (3) The agency requesting access has served a copy of the application for records or information on the individual or employing unit whose records or information are sought and has provided the department with proof of service. Service shall be made in the same manner as service of process in a civil action. The requesting agency shall include with the copy of the application a statement to the effect that the individual or employing unit may contact the public records officer of the department to state any objections to the release of the records or information. The department shall not act upon the application of the requesting agency until at least five days after service on the concerned individual or employing unit. The department shall consider any objections raised by the concerned individual or employing unit in deciding whether the requesting agency needs the information or records for official purposes.
(b) In cases of emergency the governmental agency requesting access shall not be required to comply formally with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section at the time of the request if the procedures required by subsection (a) of this Code section are complied with by the requesting agency following the receipt of any records or information deemed private and confidential under this article. An emergency is defined as a situation in which irreparable harm or damage could occur if records or information are not released immediately.
(c) The requirements of paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall not apply to governmental agencies where the procedures would frustrate the investigation of possible violations of criminal laws.
(d) Governmental agencies shall have access to certain records or information, limited to such items as names, addresses, social security numbers, and general information about benefit entitlement or employer information possessed by the department, for comparison purposes with records or information possessed by the requesting agency to detect improper or fraudulent claims, to determine eligibility or entitlement to public programs, or to determine potential tax liability or employer compliance with registration and licensing requirements. In those cases the governmental agency shall not be required to comply with paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section, but the requirements of the remainder of subsection (a) of this Code section must be satisfied.
(e) Disclosure to governmental agencies of information or records obtained by the department from the federal government shall be governed by any applicable federal law or any agreement between the federal government and the department where so required by federal law. State law shall control when federal law does not apply to the records or information.
(f) The disclosure of any records or information by a governmental agency which has obtained the records or information under this Code section is prohibited unless the disclosure is directly connected to the official purpose for which the records or information was obtained. The willful violation of this subsection shall upon conviction constitute a misdemeanor.
