# § 34-8-221. Review of decision of hearing officer by board of review

(a) The board of review may on its own motion affirm, modify, or set aside any decision of an administrative hearing officer on the basis of the evidence previously submitted in such case or direct the taking of additional evidence or may permit any of the parties to such decision to initiate further appeals before the board of review. The board of review shall promptly notify the parties to any proceedings of its findings and decision. The decision of the board shall become final 15 days from the date the decision is mailed to the parties.
(b) The board of review may, in its discretion and on its own motion, reconsider its decision at any time within 15 days from the date the decision is mailed to the parties. The board shall notify all concerned parties of its intent to reconsider a final decision. Such notice shall stay the process of judicial review until a final decision is released by the board.
(c) The quorum for the board of review shall be two members. No meeting of the board shall be scheduled when it is anticipated that less than two members will be present, and no hearing shall be held nor decision released by the board in which less than two members participated.
(d) In the event only two members are able to vote on a case and one member votes to affirm the decision of the administrative hearing officer but the other member votes to reverse the decision or remand the case for another hearing, the decision of the administrative hearing officer shall stand affirmed.
(e) The Commissioner shall provide the board of review and the office of administrative appeals with proper facilities and assistants for the execution of their functions.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 625,§ 5, eff. 4/24/2014.
