# § 34-8-222. Procedure for appeal of claims to board of review; record of proceedings

The manner in which appealed claims shall be presented and the conduct of hearings and appeals shall be in accordance with regulations prescribed by the Commissioner for determining the rights of the parties. It is not required that such regulations conform to common law or statutory rules of evidence and other technical rules of procedure. A full and complete record shall be kept of all proceedings in connection with an appealed claim. All testimony at any hearing upon a claim before the administrative hearing officer shall be mechanically recorded but need not be transcribed unless the disputed claim is further appealed. The board of review, in its sole discretion, shall have the power to determine the necessity for transcription of any record to be considered by it. However, no provision of this Code section shall preclude the Commissioner from making the original documents, papers, and transcripts available for inspection upon written request by any party to the proceedings. Documents, papers, and transcripts shall be available for inspection during normal working hours at the office of the department in Atlanta or at the local office of the department where the original claim for benefits under this law was filed. Due to the confidential nature of the proceedings, only agency personnel or the board of review shall be permitted to make a recording of any type whatsoever of any hearing involving a claim for benefits or an appeal therefrom. The hearing may be recorded by one or both of the interested parties, provided prior written consent is received by the office of administrative appeals from all interested parties.
