# § 34-8-158. Financing benefits paid employees of governmental entities and nonprofit organizations

(a)Organizations covered. Benefits paid to employees of governmental entities and nonprofit organizations shall be financed in accordance with this Code section and Code Sections 34-8-157 and 34-8-159 through 34-8-162. For the purpose of this Code section, a nonprofit organization is an organization or a group of organizations described in Section 501(c)(3) of the United States Internal Revenue Code which is exempt from income tax under Section 501(a) of such code. For the purposes of this Code section, a governmental entity is an organization or group of organizations described in subsection (h) of Code Section 34-8-35.
(b)Payments in lieu of contributions. Governmental entities and nonprofit organizations which, pursuant to Code Section 34-8-35, are or become subject to this chapter shall pay contributions under Code Sections 34-8-150 through 34-8-157 unless they elect to make payments in lieu of contributions in accordance with this subsection. All entities which elect to make payments in lieu of contributions shall pay to the Commissioner for the unemployment fund the full amount of regular benefits which are attributable to the service of individuals in their employ during the effective period of election or subjectivity to this chapter.
(c)Procedure for payments in lieu of contributions.
  (1) For claims filed prior to January 1, 1992, governmental entities described in subsection (a) of this Code section which elect to make payments in lieu of contributions shall pay the Commissioner for the unemployment fund 100 percent of extended benefits paid which are attributable to the service of individuals in their employ during the effective period. Nonprofit organizations which elect to make payments in lieu of contributions shall pay to the Commissioner for the unemployment fund 50 percent of extended benefits paid which are attributable to the service of individuals in their employ during the effective period; provided, however, that for the first week of extended benefits paid, the reimbursement to the unemployment fund shall be 100 percent of the extended benefits paid.
  (2) For claims filed on or after January 1, 1992, an employer who has elected to make payments in lieu of contributions shall pay to the Commissioner for the unemployment fund the amount of benefits paid to former employees when such entity is determined to be the "most recent employer" as defined in Code Section 34-8-43. Extended benefits paid, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 34-8-157, shall be financed in their entirety by governmental entities. Nonprofit organizations shall reimburse 100 percent for the first week of extended benefits paid and 50 percent of extended benefits paid after the first week when any of such entities is determined to be the most recent employer.
(d)Notice of election.
  (1) Those entities described in subsection (b) of this Code section may elect to become liable for payments in lieu of contributions for a period of not less than two full calendar years, provided that a written notice of such election is filed with the Commissioner within 30 days of the date of the determination of liability under this chapter. Such election shall consist of the remainder of the calendar year in which the election is made and for not less than the two full ensuing calendar years.
  (2) Those entities described in subsection (b) of this Code section which elect to make payments in lieu of contributions will continue to be liable for such payments unless a written notice terminating such election is filed with the Commissioner not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the calendar year for which such termination shall first be effective.
  (3) Any entity described in subsection (b) of this Code section which has been paying contributions under this chapter for at least two full calendar years may change to a reimbursable basis. The change in status shall be accomplished by the filing of a written notice of election to become liable for payments in lieu of contributions not later than 30 days prior to the beginning of the next calendar year. Such election shall not be terminated by the organization for the next two calendar years.
(e)Commissioner's discretion to extend period with respect to written notice of election or termination.
  (1) The Commissioner may at his or her discretion extend the period within which a notice of election or a notice of termination must be filed and may permit an election to be retroactive.
  (2) The Commissioner, in accordance with such regulations as the Commissioner may prescribe, shall notify each governmental entity or nonprofit organization of any determination relative to its status as an employer and of the effective date of any election which it makes or of any termination of such election. Such determination shall be subject to reconsideration, appeal, and review.
