# § 34-8-177. Procedure for collecting delinquent contribution payments from public employers

Should any department or political subdivision of the state, any instrumentality of a political subdivision of the state, or any instrumentality of one or more of the foregoing become more than 120 days delinquent in contributions or payments in lieu of contributions due to the Unemployment Compensation Fund, the Department of Labor shall certify to the Office of the State Treasurer the amount due. The Office of the State Treasurer shall transfer the amount due to the Department of Labor from funds it has available for distribution to the respective department or political subdivision of the state, instrumentality of a political subdivision of the state, or instrumentality of one or more of the foregoing. The certification shall be signed by the Commissioner and shall be conclusive proof of the delinquency. The Commissioner shall mail a copy of the certification to the delinquent public employer on the date of transmittal to the Department of Administrative Services. Should the public employer wish to appeal the Commissioner's decision, it shall so notify the Commissioner within 15 days from the date the certification is mailed to the public employer. The Commissioner shall, upon receipt of the notice, request the Attorney General to appoint an independent attorney as an administrative hearing officer to hear all issues involved and render a decision. Should the public employer or the Commissioner contest the administrative hearing officer's decision, an appeal may be filed, within 30 days after the decision of the administrative hearing officer has been mailed, in the superior court of the county in which the decision was rendered. The Attorney General shall represent the Commissioner in any such matters appealed.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
