# § 34-8-77. Creation and financing of State Employment Service; cooperation with federal agencies; authority to establish and maintain free public employment offices

(a) The State Employment Service is established as a program administered on behalf of the State of Georgia by the Governor's designee. The Governor's designee shall establish and maintain free public employment offices in such number and in such places as may be necessary for the proper administration of this chapter and for the purposes of the state fulfilling such duties as are within the purview of the federal Wagner-Peyser Act, 29 U.S.C. Section 49, as amended. The Governor's designee is authorized to cooperate with or enter into agreements with any official or agency of the United States having powers or duties under the federal Wagner-Peyser Act and to do and perform all things necessary to secure to this state the benefits of that act in the promotion and maintenance of a system of public employment offices. The provisions of the federal Wagner-Peyser Act are accepted by this state, in conformity with Section 4 of that act, and this state will observe and comply with the requirements thereof. The United States secretary of labor shall be notified as to the Governor's designee that shall serve as the designated and constituted agency of this state for the purposes of the federal Wagner-Peyser Act.
(b) For the purpose of establishing and maintaining free public employment offices, the Governor's designee is authorized to enter into agreements with the Railroad Retirement Board or any other agency of the United States charged with the administration of any unemployment compensation law, with the department or with any political subdivision of this state, or with any private, nonprofit organization; and, as a part of any such agreement, the Governor's designee may accept moneys, services, or quarters as a contribution.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 727,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
