# § 34-8-173. Release or subordination of property subject to lien; authority to settle and compromise payment of contributions; annual reports

(a) The Commissioner may release or subordinate all or any portion of the property subject to any lien obtained under provisions of this chapter if the Commissioner determines that the contributions, interest, and penalties are sufficiently secured by a lien on other property or through other security or that the release, partial release, or subordination of such lien will not endanger or jeopardize the collection of amounts due.
(b)
  (1) The Commissioner is authorized to settle and compromise any payment of contributions and interest thereon, including penalty, or any tax execution, where there is doubt as to the liability of the employer or where there is doubt as to the collectability and the settlement or compromise is in the best interest of the state. The Commissioner may make all reasonable rules and regulations necessary to effectuate the purpose of this Code section.
  (2) The Commissioner shall file an annual report with the Attorney General, the members of the Senate Insurance and Labor Committee, and the members of the House Committee on Industry and Labor, which report shall state the number of cases and the total amount of debt which is compromised under this Code section. The Commissioner shall retain on file for five years a detailed statement listing the names of the employers whose debt was compromised, the amount of debt compromised, the number of cases, and the specified reasons for each debt compromise under this Code section. This statement shall be available for review by members of the General Assembly, the Attorney General, the state accounting officer, and the state auditor.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 34, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 140,§ 34, eff. 7/1/2005.
