# § 34-8-84. Commissioner as custodian of fund; establishment of accounts within fund; deposits of money in accounts

(1) a clearing account,
(2) an unemployment trust fund account, and
(3) a benefit account. The Commissioner shall immediately deposit all moneys payable to the fund, upon receipt thereof, in the clearing account. Refunds payable pursuant to Code Section 34-8-164 may be paid from the clearing account or the benefit account upon authorization issued by the Commissioner. After clearance thereof, all other moneys in the clearing account shall be immediately deposited with the secretary of the treasury of the United States to the credit of the account of this state in the Unemployment Trust Fund established and maintained pursuant to Section 904 of the Social Security Act, as amended, any provisions of law in this state relating to the deposit, administration, release, or disbursement of moneys in the possession or custody of this state to the contrary notwithstanding. The benefit account shall consist of all moneys requisitioned from this state's account in the Unemployment Trust Fund. Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, moneys in the clearing and benefit accounts may be deposited by the Commissioner in any bank or public depository in which general funds of the state may be deposited, but no public deposit insurance charge or premium shall be paid out of the fund; provided, however, that any charges for exchange on local bank checks in payment of contributions may be paid as expense of collection from the Employment Security Administration Fund. Such money shall be secured by the depository bank to the same extent and in the same manner as required by the general depository laws of this state; and collateral pledged for this purpose or bonds given for this purpose shall be kept separate and distinct from any collateral pledged to secure the other funds of the state. The Commissioner shall be liable on the Commissioner's official bond for the faithful performance of duties in connection with the Unemployment Compensation Fund as provided under this chapter. All sums recovered on any surety bond for losses sustained by the Unemployment Compensation Fund shall be deposited in said fund.
