# § 34-8-159. Specific provisions for payments in lieu of contributions

(1) Date payment due. Upon approval by the Commissioner, at the end of each calendar quarter or at the end of such other period as determined by the Commissioner, each organization or group of organizations shall be billed for payments in lieu of contributions charged to it during such quarter or other prescribed period in accordance with Code Section 34-8-158. Provisions applicable to contributing employers in Code Section 34-8-157 under which employers may not be charged do not apply to employers who make payments in lieu of contributions;
(2) Payment to be made not later than 30 days after bill mailed. The payment of any bill rendered under paragraph (1) of this Code section shall be made not later than 30 days after such bill was mailed to the last known address of the organization or was otherwise delivered to it unless there has been an application for review and redetermination in accordance with paragraph (4) of this Code section;
(3) Payments made not to be deducted from remuneration of individuals. Payments made by any governmental entity or nonprofit organization under this Code section shall not be deducted or deductible, in whole or in part, from the remuneration of individuals in the employ of the governmental entity or nonprofit organization;
(4) Amount specified in billing conclusive. The amount due specified in any billing notice from the Commissioner pursuant to paragraph (1) of this Code section shall be conclusive unless, not later than 15 days after the billing notice was mailed to its last known address or otherwise delivered to it, the organization files an application for redetermination by the Commissioner, setting forth the grounds for such application or appeal. The Commissioner shall promptly review and reconsider the amount due specified in the billing notice and shall thereafter issue a redetermination in any case in which such application for redetermination has been filed. Any such redetermination shall be conclusive with respect to the organization unless, not later than 15 days after the redetermination was mailed to its last known address or otherwise delivered, the organization files an appeal, setting forth the grounds for the appeal. Proceedings on appeal from the amount of a billing notice rendered under this Code section or a redetermination of such amount shall be in accordance with regulations as prescribed by the Commissioner; and
(5) Past due payments. Past due payments in lieu of contributions shall be subject to the same interest and penalties that, pursuant to Code Sections 34-8-165 and 34-8-166, apply to past due contributions. Interest or penalties shall not accrue with respect to any portion of the amount billed on which the employer prevails in the redetermination, but shall continue to accrue as to any portion of the amount billed on which the employer does not prevail.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 113,§ 5, eff. 5/6/2015.
