# § 50-27-74. Right to notice and hearing; service of notice; establishment of procedures; prohibition on assigning, transferring or selling by master licensee

(a) An applicant or licensee is entitled to at least 30 days' written notice and, if requested, a hearing in the following instances:
  (1) After an application for an original or renewal license has been refused;
  (2) Before the corporation may revoke a license; or
  (3) Before the corporation may invoke any other sanctions provided by this article. For purposes of this paragraph, sanctions shall not include:
    (A) Issuance of a citation;
    (B) Imposition of a late fee, penalty fee, or interest penalty under subsection (k) of Code Section 50-27-71, Code Section 50-27-80, or subsection (a) of Code Section 50-27-82; or
    (C) Sealing a machine or imposing charges related thereto under subsection (f) of Code Section 50-27-82.
(b) The written notice provided by this Code section may be served personally by the chief executive officer or an authorized representative of the corporation or sent by United States certified mail or statutory overnight delivery addressed to the applicant, licensee, or registration certificate holder at its last known address. In the event that notice cannot be effected by either of these methods after due diligence, the chief executive officer may prescribe any reasonable method of notice calculated to inform a person of average intelligence and prudence of the corporation's action, including publishing the notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the area in which the applicant, licensee, or registration certificate holder conducts its business activities. The written notice shall state with particularity the basis upon which the corporation is taking the proposed actions.
(c) Subject to approval by the chief executive officer and corporation, the Bona Fide Coin Operated Amusement Machine Operator Advisory Board shall establish a procedure for hearings required by this article. Such procedure shall empower the chief executive officer with the authority to delegate or appoint any person or public agency to preside over the hearing and adjudicate the appeal, and the chief executive officer shall identify the party responsible for entering a final decision for the corporation.
(d) At the time that a master licensee receives notice of a potential revocation of its master license as provided in this Code section, the master licensee shall be prohibited from assigning, selling, or otherwise transferring any of its contracts with location owners or location operators to any other master licensee or other person, and such prohibition shall remain in effect unless or until a final decision, not subject to further appeal, is rendered which does not result in the revocation of the master license. After a master license is revoked by final order and no other appeals are available, any contracts between a master licensee and a location owner or location operator for the providing of bona fide coin operated amusement machines shall be null and void. Nothing in this subsection shall prevent a location owner or location operator from exercising any contractual right to place machines of another master licensee in such location.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 572,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2016.
Renumbered from § 48-17-5 and amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 15,§ 1-1, eff. 4/10/2013.
