# § 50-27-13. Disposition of lottery proceeds; budget report by Governor; appropriations by General Assembly; shortfall reserve subaccount

(a)
  (1) All lottery proceeds shall be the property of the corporation.
  (2) From its lottery proceeds the corporation shall pay the operating expenses of the corporation. As nearly as practical, at least 45 percent of the amount of money from the actual sale of lottery tickets or shares shall be made available as prize money; provided, however, that this paragraph shall be deemed not to create any lien, entitlement, cause of action, or other private right, and any rights of holders of tickets or shares shall be determined by the corporation in setting the terms of its lottery or lotteries.
  (3) As nearly as practical, for each fiscal year, net proceeds shall equal at least 35 percent of the lottery proceeds. However, for the first two full fiscal years and any partial first fiscal year of the corporation, net proceeds need only equal 30 percent of the proceeds as nearly as practical.
(b)
  (1) On or before the fifteenth day of each quarter, the corporation shall transfer to the general fund of the state treasury, for credit to the Lottery for Education Account for the preceding quarter, the amount of all net proceeds during the preceding quarter. The state treasurer shall separately account for net proceeds by establishing and maintaining a Lottery for Education Account within the state treasury.
  (2) Upon their deposit into the state treasury, any moneys representing a deposit of net proceeds shall then become the unencumbered property of the State of Georgia and the corporation shall have no power to agree or undertake otherwise. Such moneys shall be invested by the state treasurer in accordance with state investment practices. All earnings attributable to such investments shall likewise be the unencumbered property of the state and shall accrue to the credit of the Lottery for Education Account.
  (3)
    (A) Beginning in Fiscal Year 2025, a shortfall reserve shall be maintained within the Lottery for Education Account in an amount equal to at least 50 percent of the average amount of net proceeds deposited into such account for the preceding three fiscal years, hereinafter referred to as the minimum reserve. Beginning in Fiscal Year 2025 and for each fiscal year thereafter, if on the last day of the preceding fiscal year the total reserve fund balance exceeds the minimum reserve, an amount equal to 10 percent of the excess reserve funds, meaning the amount that the total reserve fund balance exceeds the minimum reserve, shall be appropriated for educational purposes and programs.
    (B) If the net proceeds paid into the Lottery for Education Account in any year are not sufficient to meet the amount appropriated for educational purposes and programs, the shortfall reserve may be drawn upon to meet the deficiency and any amount so drawn may count for purposes of appropriations in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
    (C) If the shortfall reserve is drawn upon and falls below 50 percent of the average amount of net proceeds deposited into such account for the preceding three fiscal years, the shortfall reserve shall be replenished to the level required by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph in the next fiscal year and the lottery funded programs shall be reviewed and adjusted accordingly.
(c)
  (1) In the budget report to the General Assembly, as a separate budget category entitled "lottery proceeds," the Governor shall estimate the amount of net proceeds and treasury earnings thereon to be credited to the Lottery for Education Account during the fiscal year and the amount of unappropriated surplus estimated to be accrued in the account at the beginning of the fiscal year. The sum of estimated net proceeds, treasury earnings thereon, and unappropriated surplus shall be designated lottery proceeds.
  (2) In the budget report the Governor shall further make specific recommendations as to the education programs and purposes for which appropriations should be made from the Lottery for Education Account. The General Assembly shall appropriate from the Lottery for Education Account by specific reference to it, or by reference to "lottery proceeds." All appropriations of lottery proceeds to any particular budget unit shall be made together in a separate part entitled, identified, administered, and accounted for separately as a distinct budget unit for lottery proceeds. Such appropriations shall otherwise be made in the manner required by law for appropriations.
  (3) It is the intent of the General Assembly that appropriations from the Lottery for Education Account shall be for educational purposes and projects only.
  (4) If, for any educational purpose or program, less is appropriated in or during the fiscal year than is authorized, the excess shall be available for appropriation the following fiscal year and shall not retain its character as funds for the particular purpose.
(d) Appropriations for educational purposes and programs from the account not committed during the fiscal year shall lapse to the general fund and shall be credited to the Lottery for Education Account.
(e) Except as qualified by this chapter, appropriations from the Lottery for Education Fund shall be subject to Part 1 of Article 4 of Chapter 12 of Title 45, the "Budget Act."
(f) In compliance with the requirement of the Constitution that there shall be a separate accounting of lottery proceeds, no deficiency in the Lottery for Education Account shall be replenished by book entries reducing any nonlottery reserve of general funds, including specifically but without limitation the revenue shortfall reserve or the midyear adjustment reserve; such programs must be adjusted or discontinued according to available lottery proceeds unless the General Assembly by general law establishes eligibility requirements and appropriates specific funds within the general appropriations Act; nor shall any nonlottery surplus in the general fund be reduced. No surplus in the Lottery for Education Account shall be reduced to correct any nonlottery deficiencies in sums available for general appropriations, and no surplus in the Lottery for Education Account shall be included in any surplus calculated for setting aside any nonlottery reserve or midyear adjustment reserve. In calculating net revenue collections for the revenue shortfall reserve and midyear adjustment reserve, the state accounting officer shall not include the net proceeds.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 586,§ 2, eff. 5/6/2024.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 3,§ 15, eff. 3/15/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 76,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 140,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 720, § 10, eff. 7/1/2004.
