# § 50-27-87. Master licenses; requirements and restrictions for licensees

(a)
  (1) Except as provided in this Code section, a person shall not own, maintain, place, or lease a bona fide coin operated amusement machine unless he or she has a valid master license; provided, however, that a manufacturer or distributor may own a bona fide coin operated amusement machine intended for sale to an operator, master licensee, manufacturer, or distributor.
  (2) A master licensee shall only place or lease bona fide coin operated amusement machines for use in Georgia in a licensed location owner's or location operator's establishments.
  (3) To be eligible as a master licensee, the person shall not have had a gambling license in any state for at least five years prior to obtaining or renewing a Georgia master's license.
  (4) On or after July 1, 2013, no person with or applying for a master license shall have an interest in any manufacturer, distributor, location owner, or location operator in this state. No person with or applying for a manufacturer license shall have an interest in a distributor, master licensee, location owner, or location operator in this state. No person applying for a distributor license shall have an interest in a manufacturer, master licensee, location owner, or location operator in this state. Additionally, no group or association whose membership includes manufacturers, distributors, operators, master licensees, location owners, or location operators shall obtain a master license nor shall they form an entity which acts as a master licensee, operator, location owner, or location operator for the purpose of obtaining a master license; provided, however, that through June 30, 2015, this paragraph shall not apply to persons who, as of December 31, 2013, have or will have continuously possessed a master license for ten or more years and, for ten or more years, have or will have continuously owned or operated a location where a bona fide coin operated machine has been placed. Nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit a manufacturer, distributor, or master licensee from entering into a financing arrangement with the other for the sale of machines, including but not limited to a lien, guaranty, or line of credit.
  (5) Failure to adhere to the provisions of this subsection shall result in a fine of not more than $50,000.00 and loss of the license for a period of one to five years per incident and subject the master licensee to the loss of any other state or local license held by the master licensee. The corporation shall notify any state or federal agency that issues a license to such master licensee of the breach of its duties under this article.
(b)
  (1) No bona fide coin operated amusement machine, its parts, or software or hardware shall be placed or leased in any location owner's or location operator's establishment except by a master licensee and only if the owner or agent of the location owner or location operator has entered into a written agreement with a master licensee for placement of the bona fide coin operated amusement machine. Beginning on July 1, 2013, no person with or applying for a location owner's or location operator's license shall have an interest in any person or immediate family member of a person with a master license, or doing business as a distributor, or manufacturer in this state. A location owner or location operator may sell a bona fide coin operated amusement machine to anyone except another location owner or location operator. Failure to adhere to this subsection shall result in a fine of up to $50,000.00 and loss of the location owner's or location operator's license for a period of one to five years per incident and subject the location owner or location operator to the loss of any other state or local licenses held by the location owner or location operator. The corporation shall notify any state or federal agency that issues a license to such location owner or location operator of the breach of its duties under this article.
  (2) A copy of the written agreement shall be on file in the master licensee's and the location owner's and location operator's place of business and available for inspection by individuals authorized by the corporation.
  (3)
    (A) Any written agreement entered into after April 10, 2013, shall be exclusive as between one bona fide coin operated amusement machine master licensee and one location owner or location operator per location. Any agreement entered into before April 10, 2013, shall not be deemed void for failure to allocate revenue pursuant to Code Section 50-27-87.1 or 50-27-102, and notwithstanding any agreements between master licensees and location owners and location operators, both shall act in a manner that complies with this chapter.
    (B) Any agreement entered into or renewed after May 3, 2016, shall be for at least one year.
    (C) Any applicant for a new location license for a location where machines have been placed at any time in the immediately preceding nine months shall either:
      (i) Not place machines in such location for nine months from the date of the granting of the location license; or
      (ii) Formally accept an assignment of the written agreement between the master licensee and the immediately preceding location owner or location operator; provided, however, that the master licensee may refuse to assign the written agreement. For the purposes of division (ii) of this subparagraph, the master licensee is the master licensee that, in the nine months preceding the application for a new location license, had the last written agreement with the immediately preceding location owner or location operator or the master licensee that, in the nine months preceding the application for a new location license, had requested or commenced a hearing pursuant to Code Section 50-27-102, whichever had machines placed in the location first.
(c) No person shall receive a portion of any proceeds or revenue from the operation of a bona fide coin operated amusement machine except the operator, location owner, or location operator, notwithstanding Code Section 50-27-102. No commission or fee shall be awarded for the facilitation of a contract or agreement between a master licensee and a location owner or location operator; provided, however, that an employee of a master licensee may receive compensation, including a commission, for such agreements or contracts. A master licensee shall not pay a commission or provide anything of value to any person who is an employee, independent contractor, or immediate family member of a location owner or location operator.
(d) This Code section shall only apply to manufacturers, distributors, operators, master licensees, and location owners or location operators of Class B machines.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 572,§ 4, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 18,§ 7, eff. 4/8/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 50, eff. 4/29/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 15,§ 1-1, eff. 4/10/2013.
