# § 50-27-11. Duties of chief executive officer

(a) The chief executive officer of the corporation shall direct and supervise all administrative and technical activities in accordance with the provisions of this chapter and with the regulations, policies, and procedures adopted by the board. It shall be the duty of the chief executive officer to:
  (1) Facilitate the initiation and supervise and administer the operation of the lottery games;
  (2) Employ and direct such personnel as deemed necessary;
  (3) Employ by contract and compensate such persons and firms as deemed necessary;
  (4) Promote or provide for promotion of the lottery and any functions related to the corporation;
  (5) Prepare a budget for the approval of the board;
  (6) Require bond from such retailers and vendors in such amounts as required by the board;
  (7) Report quarterly to the state auditor, the state accounting officer, and the board a full and complete statement of lottery revenues and expenses for the preceding quarter; and
  (8) Perform other duties generally associated with a chief executive officer of a corporation of an entrepreneurial nature.
(b) The chief executive officer may for good cause suspend, revoke, or refuse to renew any contract entered into in accordance with the provisions of this chapter or the regulations, policies, and procedures of the board.
(c) The chief executive officer or his designee may conduct hearings and administer oaths to persons for the purpose of assuring the security or integrity of lottery operations or to determine the qualifications of or compliance by vendors and retailers.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 140,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2005.
