# § 50-27-103. Removal of Class B machines; notification; audits

(a) Any local governing authority may, after providing no less than 60 days' notice to all master licensees and location owners and location operators, and in a manner consistent with this Code section, vote to remove any Class B machines from the local jurisdiction.
(b) Beginning on the first day of the first January after the certification of the Class B accounting terminal under the provisions of Code Section 50-27-101:
  (1) The corporation shall notify any master licensee and location owner and location operator of any materially adverse findings of any audit conducted by the corporation to ensure compliance with Code Section 50-27-102. The notice shall be provided to both the master licensee and the location owner or location operator, regardless of which party's acts or conduct caused the materially adverse finding;
  (2) If, after the notice required by this Code section, another consecutive audit conducted by the corporation not less than six months later contains a similar materially adverse finding, the corporation shall notify the master licensee and the location owner or location operator that were audited and every master licensee and location owner and location operator in this state. After the second consecutive audit described in this paragraph, the corporation may enter into a corrective action plan with the master licensee or the location owner or location operator, or both. If the next audit conducted by the corporation not less than six months later contains a similar materially adverse finding, the corporation shall notify the master licensee and the location owner or location operator that were audited and every master licensee and location owner and location operator in this state, and such notice shall be considered an order by the corporation. Unless a longer period of time is agreed to by the corporation, not more than 30 days after the third consecutive materially adverse audit finding, the master licensee and location owner or location operator that were audited may appeal the findings of any of the three audits to the Office of State Administrative Hearings as a contested case under Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." If the master licensee or location owner or location operator that was audited does not appeal the corporation's order as authorized in this Code section, it shall be deemed a final order and shall be used to determine whether the notice to local governing authorities provided for in paragraph (3) of this subsection is required, and only upon such notice shall the action described by subsection (a) of this Code section be authorized. For the purposes of this Code section, notice shall be provided in the same manner required by subsection (b) of Code Section 50-27-74; and
  (3) If, pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection, a final judgment or final order has been entered against at least 15 percent of master licensees and location owners and location operators in a local jurisdiction over any consecutive two-year period, the corporation shall notify the city or county and each and every licensee in this state.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 15,§ 1-1, eff. 4/10/2013.
