# § 50-27-85. Penalties for violations by location owners or operators

(a) Except as specifically provided in this article, for single or repeated violations of this article by a location owner or location operator who offers one or more bona fide coin operated amusement machines for play by the public, the corporation may impose the following penalties on such a location owner or location operator:
  (1) A civil fine in an amount specified in rules and regulations promulgated in accordance with this article; or
  (2) For a third or subsequent offense, a suspension or revocation of the privilege of offering one or more bona fide coin operated amusement machines for play by the public.
(b) Before a penalty is imposed in accordance with this Code section, a location owner or location operator shall be entitled to at least 30 days' written notice and, if requested, a hearing as provided in Code Section 50-27-74. Such written notice shall be served in the manner provided for written notices to applicants and holders of licenses in subsection (b) of Code Section 50-27-74, and an order imposing a penalty shall be delivered in the manner provided for delivery of the corporation's orders to applicants for licenses and holders of licenses in Code Section 50-27-75.
(c) In the case of a suspension or revocation in accordance with this Code section, the corporation shall require the location owner or location operator to post a notice in the business location setting out the period of the suspension or revocation. No applicant or holder of a license or permit shall allow a bona fide coin operated amusement machine under the control of such applicant or holder of a license or permit to be placed in a business location owned or operated by a location owner or location operator who has been penalized by a suspension or revocation during the period of the suspension or revocation.

## History

Renumbered from § 48-17-16 and amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 15,§ 1-1, eff. 4/10/2013.
