# § 50-27-12. Employees; compensation; restrictions; background investigations; bonding

(a) The corporation shall establish and maintain a personnel program for its employees and fix the compensation and terms of compensation of its employees, including, but not limited to, production incentive payments; provided, however, that production incentive payments, bonuses, or any other consideration in addition to an employee's base compensation shall not exceed 25 percent of such employee's base compensation. In total, bonuses shall not exceed 1 percent of the net increase over the prior year's deposit into the Lottery for Education Account. No bonuses may be awarded in years in which there is not a net increase over the prior year's deposit into the Lottery for Education Account.
(b) No employee of the corporation shall have a financial interest in any vendor doing business or proposing to do business with the corporation.
(c) No employee of the corporation with decision-making authority shall participate in any decision involving a retailer with whom the employee has a financial interest.
(d) No employee of the corporation who leaves the employment of the corporation may represent any vendor or lottery retailer before the corporation for a period of two years following termination of employment with the corporation.
(e) Background investigation shall be conducted on each applicant who has reached the final selection process prior to employment by the corporation at the level of division director and above and at any level within any division of security and as otherwise required by the board. The corporation shall be authorized to pay for the actual cost of such investigations and may contract with the Georgia Bureau of Investigation for the performance of such investigations. The results of such a background investigation shall not be considered a record open to the public pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of this title.
(f) No person who has been convicted of a felony or bookmaking or other forms of illegal gambling or of a crime involving moral turpitude shall be employed by the corporation.
(g) The corporation shall bond corporation employees with access to corporation funds or lottery revenue in such an amount as provided by the board and may bond other employees as deemed necessary.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 3,§ 14, eff. 3/15/2011.
