# § 50-27-73. Refusal to issue or renew license; revocation or suspension; hearing; limitation on issuance of licenses

(a) The corporation shall not renew a license for a person under this article and shall suspend for any period of time or cancel a license if the corporation finds that the applicant or licensee is indebted to the state for any fees, costs, penalties, or delinquent fees.
(b) The corporation shall not issue or renew a license for a person under this article if the applicant does not designate and maintain an office in this state or if the applicant does not permit inspection by the corporation's agents of his or her place of business or of all records which the applicant or licensee is required to maintain; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to manufacturers.
(c) The corporation may refuse to issue or renew a manufacturer, distributor, or master license or may revoke or suspend a manufacturer, distributor, or master license issued under this chapter if:
  (1) The licensee or applicant has intentionally violated a provision of this chapter or a regulation promulgated under this chapter;
  (2) The licensee or applicant has intentionally failed to provide requested information or answer a question, intentionally made a false statement in or in connection with his or her application or renewal, or omitted any material or requested information;
  (3) The licensee or applicant used coercion to accomplish a purpose or to engage in conduct regulated by the corporation;
  (4) A master licensee or applicant allows the use of its master license certificate or per machine permit stickers by any other business entity or person that owns or operates bona fide coin operated amusement machines available for commercial use and available to the public for play. If such unauthorized use occurs, the corporation may fine the licensee as follows:
    (A) One thousand dollars for each improper use of a per machine permit sticker; and
    (B) Twenty-five thousand dollars for each improper use of a master license certificate. In addition, the corporation is authorized to seize the machines in question and assess the master license and permit fees as required by law and to assess the costs of such seizure to the owner or operator of the machines;
  (5) Failure to suspend or revoke the license would be contrary to the intent and purpose of this article;
  (6) The licensee or applicant has engaged in unfair methods of competition and unfair or deceptive acts or practices as provided in Code Section 50-27-87.1; or
  (7) Any applicant, or any person, firm, corporation, legal entity, or organization having any interest in any operation for which an application has been submitted, fails to meet any obligations imposed by the tax laws or other laws or regulations of this state.
(d) The corporation, on the request of a licensee or applicant for a license, shall conduct a hearing to ascertain whether a licensee or applicant for a license has engaged in conduct which would be grounds for revocation, suspension, or refusal to issue or renew a license.
(e) Effective July 1, 2024, the corporation may issue up to 220 Class B master licenses through a process of competitive auction to be established by the corporation and a competitive auction for one license shall occur once every three years effective July 1, 2024; provided, however, that any person or entity holding a Class B master license on the effective date of this subsection shall not be subject to the competitive auction process provided for in this Code section but shall be subject to all other requirements of this article; provided, further, that the corporation shall be permitted to renew Class B master licenses at any time.
(f) At any time following a proposed revocation or a proposed nonrenewal of a master license by the corporation, any settlement of such proposed revocation or proposed nonrenewal involving the sale of the master license and associated assets, including, but not limited to, contracts or agreements entered into pursuant to Code Section 50-27-87 and bona fide coin operated amusement machines, shall require a public auction.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 586,§ 6, eff. 5/6/2024.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 18,§ 4, eff. 4/8/2015.
Renumbered from § 48-17-4 and amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 15,§ 1-1, eff. 4/10/2013.
