# § 50-27-5. Membership of board of directors; appointment; terms; filling of vacancies; conflict of interests; reimbursement for expenses; officers; quorum

(a) The corporation shall be governed by a board of directors composed of seven members to be appointed by the Governor. Members shall be appointed with a view toward equitable geographic representation.
(b) Members shall be residents of the State of Georgia, shall be prominent persons in their businesses or professions, and shall not have been convicted of any felony offense. The Governor should consider appointing to the board an attorney, an accountant, and a person having expertise in marketing.
(c) Members shall serve terms of five years, except that of the initial members appointed, three shall be appointed for initial terms of two years, two shall be appointed for initial terms of four years, and two shall be appointed for initial terms of five years. Any vacancy occurring on the board shall be filled by the Governor by appointment for the unexpired term.
(d) All members appointed by the Governor shall be confirmed by the Senate. Members appointed when the General Assembly is not in regular session shall serve only until the Senate has confirmed the appointment at the next regular or special session of the General Assembly. If the Senate refuses to confirm an appointment, the member shall vacate his office on the date the confirmation fails.
(e) Members of the board shall not have any direct or indirect interest in an undertaking that puts their personal interest in conflict with that of the corporation, including, but not limited to, an interest in a major procurement contract or a participating retailer.
(f) Upon approval by the chairperson, members of the board shall be reimbursed for actual and reasonable expenses incurred for each day's service spent in the performance of the duties of the corporation.
(g) The members shall elect from their membership a chairperson and vice chairperson. The members shall also elect a secretary and treasurer who can be the chief executive officer of the corporation. Such officers shall serve for such terms as shall be prescribed by the bylaws of the corporation or until their respective successors are elected and qualified. No member of the board shall hold more than any one office of the corporation, except that the same person may serve as secretary and treasurer.
(h) The board of directors may delegate to any one or more of its members, to the chief executive officer, or to any agent or employee of the corporation such powers and duties as it may deem proper.
(i) A majority of members in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business and for the exercise of any power or function of the corporation.
(j) Action may be taken and motions and resolutions adopted by the board at any meeting thereof by the affirmative vote of a majority of present and voting board members.
(k) No vacancy in the membership of the board shall impair the right of the members to exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the board.
