# § 50-27-101. Class B accounting terminal; communication networks; other procedures and policies

(a) On or before July 1, 2014, in cooperation with the Bona Fide Coin Operated Amusement Machine Operator Advisory Board established under Code Section 50-27-89, the corporation shall procure a Class B accounting terminal linked by a communications network through which all Class B machines in a location shall connect to a single point of commerce for the purpose of accounting and reporting to the state. In no event shall the terminal approved by the corporation limit participation to only one manufacturer or one type of bona fide coin operated amusement machine. Consideration shall be given to the cost associated with retrofitting all existing Class B machines and efforts made to minimize that cost.
(b) Six months after the procurement of a Class B accounting terminal and successful pilot testing, all Class B machines shall be linked by a communications network to a Class B accounting terminal for purposes of monitoring and reading device activities as provided for in this Code section. When the corporation is satisfied with the operation of the Class B accounting terminal it shall certify the effective status of the Class B accounting terminal and notify all licensees of such certification.
(c) The Class B accounting terminal shall be designed and operated to allow the monitoring and reading of all Class B machines for the purpose of compliance with regard to their obligations to the state. The Class B accounting terminal shall be located within and administered by the corporation.
(d) The Class B accounting terminal shall not provide for the monitoring or reading of personal or financial information concerning patrons of bona fide coin operated amusement machines.
(e) Any entity that acts as a vendor for the corporation in building, operating, maintaining, or contracting to build, operate, or maintain a Class B accounting terminal shall be prohibited from obtaining a license as an operator or location owner or location operator. As used in this subsection, the term "entity" shall also include the entity's employees, independent contractors, consultants, or any other person as defined in paragraph (15) of subsection (b) of Code Section 50-27-70 which is related to the entity during the time the vendor is involved with providing service as it relates to the Class B accounting terminal for the corporation.
(f) Except as provided in subsection (e) of Code Section 50-27-73, nothing in this part shall be construed to provide any authority to the corporation to limit or eliminate Class B machines or to limit, eliminate, or unduly restrict the number of licenses, permits, or certifications for operators or location owners or location operators.
(g) The corporation shall not expand, limit, or otherwise alter what constitutes a bona fide coin operated amusement machine and the permitted redemption related items, except that the corporation shall be permitted to authorize any ticket or product of the corporation.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 15,§ 1-1, eff. 4/10/2013.
