# § 50-27-23. Restrictions on sale of tickets or shares; price; gifts and promotions

(a) No person shall sell a ticket or share at a price other than established by the corporation unless authorized in writing by the chief executive officer. No person other than a duly certified lottery retailer shall sell lottery tickets, but this subsection shall not be construed to prevent a person who may lawfully purchase tickets or shares from making a gift of lottery tickets or shares to another. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the corporation from designating certain of its agents and employees to sell or give lottery tickets or shares directly to the public.
(b) Lottery tickets or shares may be given by merchants as a means of promoting goods or services to customers or prospective customers subject to prior approval by the corporation.
(c) No lottery retailer shall sell a lottery ticket or share except from the locations listed in his contract and as evidenced by his certificate of authorization unless the corporation authorizes in writing any temporary location not listed in his contract.
(d) No lottery tickets or shares shall be sold to persons under 18 years of age, but this Code section does not prohibit the purchase of a lottery ticket or share by a person 18 years of age or older for the purpose of making a gift to any person of any age. In such case, the corporation shall direct payment of proceeds of any lottery prize to an adult member of the person's family or a legal representative of the person on behalf of such person. The person named as custodian shall have the same powers and duties as prescribed for a custodian pursuant to Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Title 44.
