# § 31-35-11. Vaccinations for emergency responders; exemption provided by physician; priority; administration and implementation; funding

(a) The department shall offer a vaccination program for emergency responders who may be exposed to infectious diseases when deployed to a disaster location. The program shall include diseases for which vaccinations are recommended by the United States Public Health Service and in accordance with the Federal Emergency Management Directors Policy and may include, but not be limited to, vaccinations for hepatitis A, hepatitis B, diphtheria-tetanus, influenza, and pneumococcal.
(b) An emergency responder shall be exempt from vaccination when a written statement from a licensed physician is presented to the department indicating that a vaccine is medically contraindicated for that person or the emergency responder signs a written statement that the administration of a vaccination conflicts with his or her personal choice or religious beliefs.
(c) In the event of a vaccine shortage, the commissioner, in consultation with the Governor and the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall use federal recommendations to determine the priority for vaccinations for emergency responders.
(d) The department shall notify emergency responders of the availability of the vaccination program and the risks associated with such vaccinations and shall provide educational materials to emergency responders on ways to prevent exposure to infectious diseases.
(e) The department may contract with county and local health departments, not for profit home health care agencies, hospitals, physicians, or other licensed health care organizations to administer the vaccination program for emergency responders.
(f) The vaccination program established pursuant to this article shall be implemented only upon receipt of federal funding or grants for aid available and approved for purposes under this article.
(g) The department shall take all necessary steps to apply for federal funding to implement the vaccination program under this article including use of an expedited application procedure if circumstances require such. The department shall also amend the state plan if necessary to meet federal funding requirements.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 215, § 4, eff. 7/1/2003.
