# § 50-2-23.1. Lands owned by United States; concurrent jurisdiction authorized; procedure for cession

(a) The consent of the State of Georgia is given to the cession of concurrent jurisdiction to the United States of America over lands within the boundaries of the State of Georgia that are owned by the United States of America or over which such jurisdiction is necessary for the effective administration and management of the lands owned by the United States.
(b) Whenever the United States of America desires to acquire concurrent jurisdiction over lands of the type described in subsection (a) of this Code section, application therefor shall be made to the Governor by the principal officer of the agency of the United States having administrative and legal control over the land and shall describe with specificity the lands for which concurrent jurisdiction is sought. For the purpose of this Code section, "legal control" shall include the authority to sell, convey, rent, lease, make covenants, alienate, or otherwise control by lawful means, any and all interests and rights in real property including but not limited to the right of possession to, use of, and travel upon or over relevant lands.
(c) Upon receipt of an application to acquire concurrent jurisdiction on behalf of the United States over lands of the type described in subsection (a) of this Code section, the Governor is authorized to cede concurrent jurisdiction over such lands to the United States.
(d) Cession of concurrent jurisdiction shall be effected by means of negotiation and execution of an agreement between the Governor on behalf of the state and the principal officer of the United States agency having administrative and legal control over the land. Any jurisdiction not specifically ceded in any such agreement is reserved to the state. Cession of such concurrent jurisdiction as is ceded by the state in any such agreement shall become effective upon the acceptance by the United States indicated in writing upon the instrument of cession by the authorized official or officials of the United States.
(e) Nothing contained in this Code section or in any instrument executed pursuant to it shall be construed as consent either to the preemption of any of the laws and regulations of this state or to the exemption of any federal lands from regulation pursuant to the laws and regulations of this state to the extent such lands are subject thereto. Nor shall any provision of this law or any instrument executed pursuant thereto be construed as a limitation or restriction upon the power, right, and authority of the General Assembly to enact laws and authorize the promulgation of regulations.
