# § 50-2-28. Capitol Square designated; state control and jurisdiction over buildings and grounds; Governor authorized to deed part of grounds for traffic movement

(a) The following area is designated as "Capitol Square":
  (1) The property owned by this state and the sidewalks and streets within the area in the City of Atlanta bounded by Washington Street, Trinity Avenue, Memorial Drive, Capitol Avenue, and Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive; and
  (2) The buildings and property owned and operated by the Georgia Building Authority which are located on or bounded by Central Avenue, Trinity Avenue, Memorial Drive, Capitol Avenue, Jessie Hill, Jr. Drive, Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, Peachtree Street, and Marietta Street.
(b) The state shall have the same control and jurisdiction over the use of the buildings and grounds owned by the state and designated as Capitol Square as have been authorized by law for the control and supervision of the public property formerly known as the State Capitol Buildings and Grounds.
(c) The Governor is authorized and empowered to deed, upon unanimous approval of the Governor, an appointee of the Governor who is not the Attorney General, and state auditor, upon such terms and conditions as they may deem to be to the best interests of the state, to the City of Atlanta or other appropriate governmental entity such part of the grounds owned by the state and facing Capitol Avenue that is deemed necessary and essential to widen, straighten, and improve Capitol Avenue at the entrance to Martin Luther King, Jr. Drive, so as to route traffic to such other property which is essential or necessary to aid in the movement of traffic around Capitol Square.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 379,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
