# § 12-11-8. Location of and contracts for projects; prohibited uses of corps members

(a) Corps projects may take place on any property owned or used by the federal government, by the state or any of its departments, agencies, or political subdivisions, or by nonprofit agencies which otherwise qualify for contracting of services by the corps.
(a.1) Corps projects may take place on private residential property for purposes of paragraph (8.1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 12-11-4 but only to the extent that federal funds are available for such purposes. No public funds other than federal funds made available to the state shall be expended on such corps projects on private residential property.
(b) The commissioner may, subject to this chapter and the rules and regulations of the board, contract with the federal government, with any department or agency of the state or its political subdivisions, or with nonprofit agencies for projects by the corps or by other corps programs meeting the specifications of this chapter and the rules and regulations of the board.
(c) The assignment of corps members shall not result in the displacement of currently employed workers, including partial displacement such as reduction in hours of nonovertime work, wages, or other employment benefits. Agencies that participate in the corps program may not terminate, lay off, or reduce the working hours of any employee for the purpose of using a corps member with available funds. In circumstances where substantial efficiencies or a public purpose may result, agencies may use corps members to carry out essential agency work or contractual functions without displacing current employees.
(d) No corps members may be used in any manner in connection with a work or labor dispute or to impair existing contracts or collective bargaining agreements with existing employees.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 428,§ 3, eff. 5/20/2010.
