# § 12-11-11. Conservation Corps Advisory Council

(a) There is created the Conservation Corps Advisory Council, to consist of the following members:
  (1) The commissioner of natural resources;
  (2) The chairman of the State Board of Education;
  (3) The chairman of the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia;
  (4) The Commissioner of Labor;
  (5) The Commissioner of Agriculture;
  (6) The director of the State Forestry Commission;
  (7) The executive director of the State Soil and Water Conservation Committee;
  (8) The chairman of the Natural Resources and Environment Committee of the House of Representatives;
  (9) The chairman of the Senate Natural Resources and the Environment Committee;
  (10) Two members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
  (11) Two members of the Senate appointed by the President of the Senate; and
  (12) Two members of the public appointed by the Governor representing the business community.
(b) Members of the council other than members appointed under paragraphs (10), (11), and (12) of subsection (a) of this Code section may designate persons to serve in their place. Members appointed pursuant to paragraph (10) or (11) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall serve for their corresponding two-year term as members of the General Assembly. Members appointed pursuant to paragraph (12) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall serve for terms of two years.
(c) It shall be the duty of the council to:
  (1) Meet at such times as necessary in its discretion;
  (2) Organize and elect a chairman and such other officers from its membership as it deems necessary;
  (3) Advise the board regarding needed rules and regulations for the corps;
  (4) Review, analyze, and discuss the operation of the corps;
  (5) Advise the department and the director on matters affecting the efficient operation of the corps and the accomplishment of its purposes;
  (6) Assist in the promotion of the objectives of the corps; and
  (7) Review and recommend appropriate levels of funding and expenditures.
(d) Members of the council shall receive no compensation but for each day of meeting shall receive the same per diem expense amounts and transportation or mileage costs at the legal rate as are granted to members of interim legislative committees.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 74,§ 13, eff. 4/30/2009.
