# § 41-2-2. Filing of complaint to abate public nuisance; impeding travel of public service personnel

(a) Private citizens may not generally interfere to have a public nuisance abated. A complaint must be filed by the district attorney, solicitor-general, city attorney, or county attorney on behalf of the public. However, a public nuisance may be abated upon filing of a complaint by any private citizen specially injured.
(b)
  (1) This subsection shall apply to any event hosted by a promoter or organizer that is not properly permitted by the appropriate local governing authority that results in a public nuisance that impedes travel by police, fire service, emergency medical services personnel, other public safety personnel, or employees or officials of local, state, or federal governments acting in their official capacities.
  (2) Where a district attorney, solicitor-general, city attorney, or county attorney on behalf of the public files a complaint pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section and the complaint includes a statement that the conditions set forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection have been satisfied, he or she may seek in such complaint and recover on behalf of the public from a promoter or organizer of the unpermitted event reimbursement of all expenses incurred by a local governing authority associated with public safety, including, but not limited to, costs and fees for the provision of traffic control, supplemental law enforcement, fire suppression services, emergency medical technician or paramedic services, and sanitation services.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 374,§ 1, eff. 4/8/2024.
