# § 48-9-38. Requirement of motor vehicle registration card and identification marker; validity; renewal; fee; temporary authorizations; temporary permits; fee

(a) Unless otherwise excluded from the scope of this article, no motor carrier shall operate or cause to be operated in this state any motor vehicle unless and until he has:
  (1) Registered with the commissioner and secured a motor carrier registration card. A duplicate of the registration card shall be carried in each motor vehicle at all times in this state; and
  (2) Secured from the commissioner an identification marker for each motor vehicle. The identification marker shall be attached or affixed to the motor vehicle in the place and manner prescribed by the commissioner so that the marker is clearly displayed at all times.
(b) Registration cards and identification markers shall be issued on an annual basis as of January 1 of each year and shall be valid until the next succeeding December 31. The commissioner, in his discretion, may authorize renewal of registration cards and identification markers without the necessity of issuing new cards and markers. All registration cards and identification markers issued by the commissioner shall remain the property of the state and may be recalled for any violation of this article or of the regulations promulgated under this article. The commissioner shall not issue a registration card or an identification marker to any motor carrier who has outstanding motor carrier, motor fuel, sales, or income tax liabilities or other penalties or fees owed to the Department of Transportation of this state unless the liabilities are being appealed as provided by law.
(c) Prior to the issuance of each identification marker, a fee of $3.00 shall be paid to the commissioner. Upon application for identification markers by a motor carrier, the applicant shall declare the type of fuel used in vehicles for which identification markers are to be issued and any other information that the commissioner may require for the effective administration of this article.
(d) The commissioner may authorize a motor vehicle to be operated in an emergency without a registration card and identification marker for a period not in excess of 30 days. The authorization shall be granted by letter or facsimile message.
(e) A motor carrier may obtain a temporary permit which shall be good for one motor vehicle for a period of ten consecutive days beginning and ending on the dates specified on the face of the permit. Temporary permits are to be obtained by motor carriers having only infrequent trips into and through this state. The fee for the permit shall be $16.00 and no reports shall be required from such motor carriers. Temporary permits shall be issued in lieu of annual registration required under this article. A temporary permit shall be carried in the vehicle for which it was issued at all times when the vehicle is in this state. The commissioner may issue a temporary permit by facsimile message or letter.
