# § 48-9-19. Cooperative agreements with other states

(a) The commissioner may enter into cooperative agreements with other states for exchange of information in administering the tax imposed by this article. No agreement, arrangement, declaration, or amendment to an agreement shall be effective until stated in writing and approved by the commissioner.
(b) An agreement may provide for determining the base state for motor carriers; records requirements; audit procedures; exchange of information; persons eligible for tax licensing; defining qualified motor vehicles; determining if bonding is required; specifying reporting requirements and periods, including defining uniform penalty and interest rates for late reporting; determining methods for collecting and forwarding of gasoline or other motor fuel taxes and penalties to another jurisdiction; and such other provisions as will facilitate the administration of the agreement.
(c) The commissioner may, as required by the terms of an agreement, forward to officials of another state any information in the department's possession relative to the use of gasoline or other motor fuels by any motor carrier. The commissioner may disclose to officials of another state the location of offices, motor vehicles, and other real and personal property of motor carriers.
(d) An agreement may provide for each state to audit the records of motor carriers based in that state to determine if the gasoline or other motor fuel taxes due each state are properly reported and paid. Each state shall forward the findings of the audits performed on motor carriers based in that state to each state in which the motor carrier has taxable use of gasoline or other motor fuels. For motor carriers not based in this state who have taxable use of gasoline or other motor fuels in this state, the commissioner may utilize the audit findings received from another state as the basis upon which to propose assessments of gasoline or other motor fuel taxes against the motor carrier as though the audit had been conducted by the commissioner. Penalties and interest shall be assessed at the rates provided in the agreement.
(e) No agreement entered into pursuant to this Code section may preclude the department from auditing the records of any motor carrier covered by this chapter.
(f) Any assessment or order made under this Code section shall be governed by all provisions of this title applicable to assessments and orders under this chapter generally, except to the extent that different treatment is specifically required by this Code section or any agreement entered into pursuant to the authority of this Code section.
(g) If the commissioner enters into any agreement under the authority of this Code section and the provisions set forth in the agreement are in conflict with any provision of any rule or regulation promulgated by the commissioner, the provisions of such agreement shall prevail.
