# § 48-9-17. Violations of article; penalties

(a)
  (1) With respect to this article, it shall be unlawful for any person to:
    (A) Refuse or neglect to make any required statement, report, or return;
    (B) Knowingly make, or aid or assist any other person in making, a false statement in a return or report to the commissioner;
    (C) Knowingly collect or attempt to collect or cause to be paid to him or to any other person either directly or indirectly any refund of the tax without being entitled to the refund;
    (D) Fail to remit the tax to the state;
    (E) Engage in business in this state as a distributor without being licensed as required; or
    (F) Sell, import, or use any motor fuel which was purchased by such person from any person other than a duly licensed distributor and upon which the tax imposed and not exempted by law has not been paid.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $10,000.00 or by imprisonment for a term of not less than 30 days nor more than 12 months, or both. Each day or part of a day during which any person engages in business as a distributor without being the holder of an uncanceled license shall constitute a separate offense under this subsection.
(b)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase tax-exempt motor fuel from a licensed distributor for nonhighway use and to use or permit the motor fuel to be used for highway purposes.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $10,000.00 or by imprisonment for not less than 30 days nor more than 12 months, or both.
(c)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person not required by this article to be licensed as a distributor of motor fuel but who is required to file reports as provided by this article willfully to fail to file the report by the twentieth day of the succeeding month for its activities or willfully to fail to remit in the monthly reports the data required by the commissioner for proper administration of this article.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 for the first offense and not less than $1,000.00 for each subsequent offense.
(d)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this article, including, but not limited to, record keeping, or to fail to do any other act required by this article.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or both.
(e)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to import or export motor fuels across the boundaries of this state without a bill of lading from the terminal of origin or equivalent documentation setting out, in addition to the information required by subsection (d) of Code Section 48-9-9, at least the location of the terminal of origin and state or country of destination. The form, procedure, acceptable equivalent documentation, and any additional information shall be set out in rules and regulations as adopted by the commissioner.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(f)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any retail dealer, distributor, or bulk user in this state knowingly to accept delivery of motor fuel that is not accompanied by a bill of lading, invoice, or other shipping document, as specified in paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of Code Section 48-9-9, issued by the terminal operator which sets out on its face Georgia as the state of destination.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and become jointly liable with the distributor of the motor fuels for the taxes due under this article.
  (3) In the event the shipment of motor fuel did not originate from a terminal whose operator is obligated to set out this information, the commissioner is authorized to adopt by rules or regulations equivalent documentation requirements. The commissioner is further authorized to adopt rules and regulations setting out procedures to amend such documentation should the shipment have to be diverted from its original destination.
