# § 48-9-9. [Effective Until 1/1/2026] Reports of motor fuel deliveries; persons required to report; procedure; restrictions on delivery; reports of unlicensed purchasers

(a)
  (1) A report of all deliveries of motor fuel shall be made to the commissioner by:
    (A) Each of the following companies and carriers transporting motor fuel either in interstate or in intrastate commerce to points within this state:
      (i) Every railroad company;
      (ii) Every street, suburban, or interurban railroad company;
      (iii) Every pipeline company;
      (iv) Every water transportation company;
      (v) Every common or contract carrier; and
      (vi) Every operator of a terminal;
    (B) Every person transporting motor fuel by whatever manner to a point in this state from any point outside this state; and
    (C) Every person transporting motor fuel from a point in this state to a point outside this state.
  (2) Each report required by this subsection shall be:
    (A) Made under oath on forms prescribed by the commissioner; and
    (B) Filed by the twentieth day of each calendar month to cover the preceding calendar month's activities.
(b) The commissioner shall assign a tank registration number to each person transporting motor fuel over the public highways or navigable waters of this state and shall furnish a separate tank identification card for each transport tank truck or vessel operated within this state. The registration number shall be displayed continuously and conspicuously on the truck, tank, or vessel operated by persons transporting motor fuel. The identification card issued for each such truck or vessel shall be available for inspection by the commissioner's agents and shall remain with the truck or vessel when transporting motor fuel on the public highways or navigable waters of this state. Tank identification cards are not transferable and are valid only for the transport tank truck or vessel for which issued.
(c) No person shall transport motor fuel in this state except in a transport tank truck or vessel which is visibly marked on each side and on the rear with the words "Motor Fuel," "Flammable," or other indication of the type of product being transported suitable to the commissioner or other regulatory agencies, together with the name and address of the owner of the transport tank truck or vessel and the tank registration number. This subsection shall not apply to vehicles or vessels transporting motor fuel contained in their running tanks and used solely for their propulsion or to vehicles or vessels transporting not more than five gallons of motor fuel for emergency purposes.
(d)
  (1) Every person transporting motor fuel over the public highways or navigable waters of this state shall have in such person's possession an invoice, bill of sale, or other document which identifies:
    (A) The true name and address of the person from whom the motor fuel was received;
    (B) The number of gallons originally received;
    (C) The true name and address of every person who has received any part of the fuel;
    (D) The number of gallons delivered to such persons; and
    (E) The city or county and state of destination as represented to the transporter by the person who arranged the transportation.
  (2) Failure to produce such invoice, bill of sale, or other document when demanded or failure of a document produced upon demand to meet the requirements of this Code section shall be prima-facie evidence of a violation of this article.
  (3) The transporter shall leave a copy of the invoice, bill of lading, or other documentation with each person who receives the fuel into bulk storage for resale.
(e) Delivery of motor fuel from a transport tank truck or vessel directly into the fuel tank of any motor vehicle in this state is prohibited except in cases of emergency.
(f) Every person purchasing or otherwise acquiring motor fuel in bulk quantities for sale, use, or other disposition in this state who is not required to be licensed as a distributor by this article may be required to file by the twentieth day of each calendar month a report on forms prescribed by the commissioner to account for all such motor fuel acquired during the preceding calendar month. Every operator of a terminal who receives motor fuel in bulk for storage shall include on a report to the commissioner the names of all persons who are storing fuel in the terminal and the quantity received, stored, and delivered during the month on behalf of each such account. The report shall specify what portion of the deliveries recorded for each account were within the terminal to others and what portion was removed from the terminal facility via the loading rack. The report shall identify the city or county and state of destination of the deliveries as reflected on the bills of lading issued by the terminal operator.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 48, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 209,§ 12, eff. 1/1/2008.
This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
