# § 48-9-36. Refunds to motor carriers; minimum credit refundable; applications; procedure; bond; audit of applicant's records; procedure for issuance of refunds; interest

(a) Any motor carrier which accrues credits in excess of 2,000 gallons in any quarter under Code Section 48-9-35 shall be entitled to a refund of the credits subject to the conditions set forth in this Code section.
(b) All applications for refunds must be filed with the commissioner within 180 days from the end of any quarter in which credits are accumulated. Applications shall be in the form prescribed by the commissioner, shall be sworn to, and shall be supported by evidence satisfactory to the commissioner.
(c) Any motor carrier entitled to a refund may give a bond in an amount of not less than $1,000.00 payable to the state and conditioned that the motor carrier will pay all road taxes due and to become due under this article. As long as the bond remains in force, the commissioner may issue refunds to the motor carrier in the amounts appearing to be due on applications without first auditing the records of the motor carrier. The bond shall be in the form and with such surety as required by the commissioner.
(d) The commissioner shall not issue refunds in excess of the amount of the bond or bonds except after audit of the applicant's records. Except as otherwise provided by the commissioner, sufficient records must be produced in this state for audit.
(e) To enable the commissioner to make the refunds authorized by this Code section, the Office of the State Treasurer, under warrants drawn by the Governor, shall remit to the commissioner, from funds appropriated by law for that purpose, an amount equivalent to the refunds. Before the Governor issues a warrant for this purpose, he shall require that the commissioner certify the name of each applicant and the amount to which he is entitled. The refunds provided by this Code section shall be nonassignable.
(f) Refunds claimed and paid pursuant to this Code section shall bear no interest.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
