# § 48-9-10. Refunds of motor fuel taxes; refund permits generally; refunds to persons using gasoline for agricultural purposes; amounts and interest

(a)
  (1) Retail dealers and persons using gasoline for agricultural purposes are entitled to a refund of motor fuel taxes as provided by this Code section. The right to receive any refund shall not be assignable and any assignment shall be void and of no effect. No payment shall be made by the commissioner to any person other than the original person entitled to the refund. To enable the commissioner to make the refunds as authorized by this Code section, the Office of the State Treasurer, under warrants drawn by the Governor, shall remit to the commissioner from funds appropriated by law an amount equivalent to the refunds. Before the Governor issues a warrant for the funds, he shall require the commissioner to certify the name of each applicant and the amount to which each applicant is entitled.
  (2) In order for any person to be eligible for the refund provided by this Code section, the person must obtain a refund permit issued by the commissioner. The permit application shall state the information required by the commissioner to establish the right of the person to obtain a refund. In order to receive the refund, the applicant shall file with the commissioner a claim as prescribed by the commissioner and shall attach invoices to show proof of purchase, payment of tax, and total accountability of the motor fuel handled, consumed, or sold. Invoices submitted for proof of purchase shall contain no alterations or corrections of the name or dates originally shown on the invoice. No invoice that bears a date falling within a period of time covered by a previously paid refund claim shall be accepted to support the refund claim.
  (3) Businesses engaged in the sale and field application of fertilizers, crop protection chemicals, and poultry litter which operate vehicles licensed for agricultural field use as defined in paragraph (.1) of Code Section 48-9-2 are entitled to a refund of motor fuel taxes paid on purchases of diesel fuel. The commissioner shall prescribe a simplified method of filing the proper records of taxable diesel fuel purchases used exclusively for agricultural field use vehicles which shall serve as the basis for the refund. The refund shall be computed by multiplying the total annual volume of taxable diesel fuel purchases used exclusively for agricultural field use vehicles, times the combined total of the current state motor fuel tax and the second motor fuel tax, with the resulting product further multiplied by a factor of .90. The commissioner shall adopt such additional rules and regulations as may be necessary to provide for the proper administration of this paragraph.
(b)
  (1) Every person who purchases gasoline in quantities of 25 gallons or more, when the gasoline is used in operating farm tractors and other equipment used for the production of agricultural crops on land owned or leased by such person, shall be entitled to a refund of all of the taxes imposed on gasoline by paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of Code Section 48-9-3 except 1¢ per gallon, subject to the rules and regulations adopted by the commissioner. All applications for refunds must be filed with the commissioner within 18 months from the date of purchase of the gasoline on which the refund is claimed.
  (2) Every person who purchases fuel oils, except those dyed fuel oils as defined in Code Section 48-9-2, in quantities of 25 gallons or more, when the fuel oils are used in operating equipment used for nonhighway purposes, shall be entitled to a refund of all of the taxes imposed on fuel oils by paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of Code Section 48-9-3 except that no interest shall be paid. All applications for refunds must be filed with the commissioner within 18 months from the date of purchase of the fuel oils on which the refund is claimed.
(c) Every person who purchases motor fuel in bulk quantities and sells the motor fuel at retail shall be entitled to a refund of 2 percent of the first 5 1/2¢ per gallon of the motor fuel taxes as compensation to cover losses for evaporation, shrinkage, and spillage. A licensed distributor of a type of motor fuel is not entitled to this refund on fuel for which the distributor holds a license. All applications for refunds must be filed with the commissioner within six months from the date of purchase of the motor fuel on which the refund is claimed. Separate claims shall be made to reflect the operations of each retail location at which motor fuel is sold at retail if more than one retail location is operated by the applicant.
(d) Refunds claimed and paid pursuant to this Code section shall not bear interest.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 500, § 5, eff. 7/1/2004.
