# § 44-17-4. Revocation or amendment

(a) A record owner of an interest in real estate who has titled such interest in a transfer-on-death deed form and designated a beneficiary or beneficiaries in the manner provided in this chapter may revoke such designation of the grantee beneficiary or beneficiaries at any time prior to the death of such record owner, by executing, acknowledging, and recording in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county where the real estate is located an instrument revoking such designation. The instrument of revocation shall refer to the initial transfer-on-death deed, shall be signed by the record owner or such record owner's duly authorized attorney-in-fact, and such signature shall be attested by an officer as provided in Code Section 44-2-15 and attested by two other witnesses. Such revocation may be included in another deed or other instrument of conveyance that is recorded. The signature, consent, or agreement of or notice to the designated grantee beneficiary or beneficiaries to the revocation shall not be required.
(b) A record owner of an interest in real estate who has titled such interest in a transfer-on-death deed form and designated a beneficiary or beneficiaries in accordance with this chapter may change such designation of the grantee beneficiary or beneficiaries at any time prior to the death of such record owner, by executing, acknowledging, and recording in the office of the clerk of superior court of the county where the real estate is located a subsequent transfer-on-death deed in accordance with this chapter. The signature, consent, or agreement of or notice to the designated grantee beneficiary or beneficiaries shall not be required. A subsequent transfer-on-death beneficiary designation revokes all prior designations of grantee beneficiary or beneficiaries by the record owner for the interest in real estate.
(c) A transfer-on-death deed executed, acknowledged, and recorded in accordance with this chapter may not be revoked by the provisions of a will.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 496,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2024.
