# § 49-2-1. Department created; transfer from Department of Human Resources; commissioner; kinship care enforcement administrator

(a) There is created a Department of Human Services. The powers, functions, and duties of the Department of Human Resources as they existed on June 30, 2009, except for those relating to the Division of Mental Health, Developmental Disabilities, and Addictive Diseases, the Division of Public Health, and the Office of Regulatory Services, unless specifically transferred or reassigned to the Department of Community Health or the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities, are transferred to the Department of Human Services effective July 1, 2009, and the Department of Human Resources shall be reconstituted as the Department of Human Services effective July 1, 2009.
(b) There is created the position of commissioner of human services. The commissioner shall be the chief administrative officer of the department and be both appointed and removed by the board, subject to the approval of the Governor. Subject to the general policy established by the board, the commissioner shall supervise, direct, account for, organize, plan, administer, and execute the functions vested in the department.
(c)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term:
    (A) "Fictive kin" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 15-11-2.
    (B) "Kinship caregiver" means a grandparent, aunt, uncle, great aunt, great uncle, cousin, or sibling of a child under the age of 18 or fictive kin who has assumed responsibility for raising such child in an informal, noncustodial, or guardianship capacity upon the legal parents of such child losing or abdicating the ability to care for or provide basic necessities for such child.
  (2) There is created the position of kinship care enforcement administrator within the Department of Human Services who shall be appointed by and serve at the discretion of the commissioner of human services. The kinship care enforcement administrator shall account for, monitor, facilitate, and ensure compliance with all laws, rules, and regulations of the federal government and this state which relate to any programs, including, but not limited to, any pilot programs, subsidies, or benefits, available to kinship caregivers or the children within their care.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 409,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
