# § 49-2-12. Development and revision of transportation plan for programs of department

(a) All divisions and sections within the department shall make an inventory of all the various vehicles to which the department holds title and shall investigate their utilization patterns in order to establish and develop a consolidated and coordinated transportation plan for the various human services programs of the department, including, but not limited to, those programs relating to the aged and to the mentally and physically disabled.
(b) Other departments and agencies of the state shall cooperate with the Department of Human Services in mutually beneficial agreements regarding the establishment and development of a coordinated transportation plan involving various vehicles to which the state has title.
(c) The plan required to be developed under this Code section shall identify the fully allocated costs of the transportation component of their services and take into consideration various limitations on the expenditure of federal funds which may arise in any consolidated or coordinated transportation system. No later than June 30, 1980, a preliminary transportation plan shall be submitted by the department to the Human Relations and Aging Committee of the House of Representatives and the Education and Youth Committee of the Senate, which plan shall be revised and submitted to such committees every two years thereafter.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
