# § 49-2-19. DFCS State Advisory Board; membership; duties; officers and committees

(a) There is established the DFCS State Advisory Board which shall consist of 20 members appointed by the Governor as follows:
  (1) One representative from each of the 15 DFCS regions; and
  (2) Five members who are either state legislators or representatives from the fields of:
    (A) Child welfare;
    (B) Former youth in foster care;
    (C) Public health or behavioral health and developmental disabilities;
    (D) Private child welfare care provider; or
    (E) Juvenile justice.
(b) The advisory board shall review and make recommendations to the director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the department regarding issues relating to the protection of children and the welfare and public assistance functions of the division. Such review and recommendations shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
  (1) Examination of current law, rules and regulations, and policy and recommendations to improve the ability of the division to increase the safety of children, respond to child maltreatment, and ensure the well-being of and timely permanency for children who are referred to and involved in the child welfare system;
  (2) Propose legislative or administrative changes to policies and programs that are integral to the protection of children and the welfare and public assistance functions of the division;
  (3) Examination of caseload assignments and ratios of child protective services workers and recommendations for reasonable expectations for such workers and supervision and support needed to perform their jobs; and
  (4) Recommendations on improved collaboration among state, local, community, and public and private stakeholders in child welfare programs and services that are administered by the division.
(c) The advisory board shall elect a chairperson from among its membership. The advisory board may elect such other officers and establish committees as it considers appropriate.
(d) The advisory board shall meet at least quarterly and at such additional times as it shall determine necessary to perform its duties. The advisory board shall also meet on the call of the chairperson, the director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the department, or the Governor. The director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the department shall participate in such meetings and provide a quarterly report to the advisory board in advance of each quarterly meeting.
(e) Members shall serve without compensation, although each member of the advisory board shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties from funds available to the advisory board; provided, however, that any legislative member shall receive the allowances authorized by law for legislative members of interim legislative committees and any members who are state employees shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred by them in the same manner as they are reimbursed for expenses in their capacities as state employees.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 77,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
