# § 33-13A-4. Procedure for reorganization

(a) A domestic mutual insurer, upon the approval of the Commissioner, may reorganize by merging its policyholders' membership interests into a mutual insurance holding company formed pursuant to Code Section 33-13A-3 and continuing the corporate existence of the reorganizing insurer as a stock insurer subsidiary of the mutual insurance holding company or an intermediate stock holding company. The Commissioner, after a public hearing as provided in paragraph (2) of subsection (d) of Code Section 33-13-3, if satisfied that the interests of the policyholders are properly protected and that the merger plan is fair and equitable to the policyholders, may approve the merger plan and may require as a condition of approval such modifications of the merger plan as the Commissioner finds necessary for the protection of the policyholders' interests. The Commissioner shall retain jurisdiction over the mutual insurance holding company organized pursuant to this Code section to ensure that policyholder interests are protected.
(b) All of the initial shares of the capital stock of the reorganized stock insurer shall be issued to the mutual insurance holding company or to an intermediate stock holding company. The membership interests of the policyholders of the reorganized stock insurer shall become membership interests in the mutual insurance holding company. Policyholders of the reorganized stock insurer shall be members of the mutual insurance holding company in accordance with the articles of incorporation and bylaws of the mutual insurance holding company. The mutual insurance holding company shall at all times own a majority of the voting stock of the reorganized stock insurer or an intermediate stock holding company. A merger of policyholders' membership interests in a mutual insurer into a mutual insurance holding company shall be deemed to be the acquisition of an insurance control company pursuant to Code Section 33-13-3 and is subject to the requirements of Code Section 33-13-3.
(c) A foreign mutual insurer which, if a domestic mutual insurer, would be organized under Chapter 14 of this title may reorganize upon the approval of the Commissioner and in compliance with the requirements of any law or rule applicable to the foreign mutual insurer by merging its policyholders' membership interests into a mutual insurance holding company formed pursuant to Code Section 33-13A-3 and continuing the corporate existence of the reorganizing foreign mutual insurer as a foreign stock insurer subsidiary of the mutual insurance holding company or one or more intermediate stock holding companies. The Commissioner, after a public hearing as provided in paragraph (2) of subsection (d) of Code Section 33-13-3, may approve the proposed merger. The reorganizing foreign mutual insurer may remain a foreign company or foreign corporation after the merger and may be admitted to do business in this state, upon approval by the Commissioner. A foreign mutual insurer that is a party to the merger may at the same time redomesticate in this state by complying with the applicable requirements of this state and its state of domicile. The provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section shall apply to a merger authorized under this subsection.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 120,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
