# § 33-13A-3. Reorganization plans

(a) A domestic mutual insurer, upon approval of the Commissioner, may reorganize by forming an insurance holding company system, which shall be designated as a mutual insurance holding company, based upon a reorganization plan and continuing the corporate existence of the reorganizing insurer as a stock insurer. Such a reorganization plan must be adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of the mutual insurer's board of directors. The Commissioner, after a public hearing as provided in paragraph (2) of subsection (d) of Code Section 33-13-3, if satisfied that the interests of the policyholders are properly protected and that the reorganization plan is fair and equitable to the policyholders, may approve the proposed reorganization plan and may require as a condition of approval such modifications of the reorganization plan as the Commissioner finds necessary for the protection of the policyholders' interests. A reorganization pursuant to this Code section is subject to the requirements of Code Section 33-13-3. The Commissioner shall retain jurisdiction over a mutual insurance holding company organized pursuant to this Code section to ensure that policyholder interests are protected.
(b) All of the initial shares of the capital stock of the reorganized stock insurer shall be issued to the mutual insurance holding company or to an intermediate stock holding company. The membership interests of the policyholders of the reorganized stock insurer shall become membership interests in the mutual insurance holding company. Policyholders of the reorganized stock insurer shall be members of the mutual insurance holding company in accordance with the articles of incorporation and bylaws of the mutual insurance holding company. The mutual insurance holding company shall at all times own a majority of the voting stock of the reorganized stock insurer or an intermediate stock holding company.
(c) The reorganization plan shall provide that all of the initial shares of capital stock of the reorganized stock insurer shall be issued to the mutual insurance holding company or to an intermediate stock holding company. The reorganization plan shall provide that the mutual insurance holding company shall at all times own a majority of the voting stock of the reorganized stock insurer or, alternatively, that the mutual insurance holding company shall at all times own the majority of voting stock in an intermediate stock holding company, which intermediate stock holding company shall at all times own all of the voting stock of the reorganized stock insurer. The shares of voting stock required to be owned by the mutual insurance holding company or by an intermediate stock holding company shall not be pledged, hypothecated, or in any way encumbered with regard to any obligation, guaranty, or commitment undertaken by or on behalf of the mutual insurance holding company or the intermediate stock holding company, if any. The reorganization plan shall also provide that the board of directors of the mutual insurance holding company will be elected by the members.
(d) The reorganization plan shall provide that membership interests of the policyholders of the mutual insurer shall automatically convert to membership interests in the mutual insurance holding company so long as the policy is in force as of the date the reorganization plan was adopted by the board of directors of the mutual insurer and that, concurrently upon the effective date of the reorganization, the policyholder's membership interests in the mutual insurer shall be extinguished.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 120,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
