# § 33-13A-10. Policyholder meetings

(a) Within 45 days after the date of the Commissioner's approval of a reorganization plan or merger plan pursuant to this chapter, unless extended by the Commissioner for good cause, the mutual insurer shall hold a meeting of its policyholders to vote upon such plan. The mutual insurer shall give notice at least 30 days before the time fixed for the meeting, by first-class mail to the last known address of each policyholder, that the reorganization plan or merger plan will be voted upon at a regular or special meeting of the policyholders. The notice shall include a brief description of the reorganization plan or merger plan and a statement that the Commissioner has approved such plan. The notice shall also include information regarding where the policyholder can obtain copies of the full reorganization plan or merger at no cost to the policyholder. The notice to each policyholder shall also include a written proxy permitting the policyholder to vote for or against the reorganization plan or merger plan. A reorganization plan or merger plan shall be approved only if not less than two-thirds of the policyholders voting in person or by proxy at the meeting vote in favor of such plan. Each policyholder shall be entitled to only one vote regardless of the number of policies owned by the policyholder.
(b) If a mutual insurer complies substantially and in good faith with the notice requirements of this Code section, the mutual insurer's failure to give any policyholder any required notice does not impair the validity of any action taken under this Code section.
(c) For purposes of voting, policyholder means a person who is eligible to vote under the mutual insurer's articles of incorporation or bylaws and who is also a policyholder of the mutual insurer as of the date on which the reorganization plan or merger plan is initially approved by the board of directors of the mutual insurer.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 120,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
