# § 33-13A-11. Treatment of stock

The majority of the voting stock of the reorganized stock insurer, which is required by this Code section to be at all times owned by a mutual insurance holding company, shall not be conveyed, transferred, assigned, pledged, subject to a security interest or lien, encumbered, or otherwise hypothecated or alienated by the mutual insurance holding company or intermediate stock holding company. Any conveyance, transfer, assignment, pledge, security interest, lien, encumbrance, hypothecation, or alienation of, in or on the majority of the voting stock of the reorganized stock insurer that is required by this Code section to be at all times owned by a mutual insurance holding company, is in violation of the provisions of this Code section and shall be void in inverse chronological order of the date of such conveyance, transfer, assignment, pledge, security interest, lien, encumbrance, hypothecation, or alienation as to the shares necessary to constitute a majority of such voting stock. The majority of the voting stock of the reorganized stock insurer that is required by this Code section to be at all times owned by a mutual insurance holding company shall not be subject to execution and levy. The shares of the capital stock of the surviving or new company resulting from a merger or consolidation of two or more reorganized stock insurers or two or more intermediate stock holding companies that were subsidiaries of the same mutual insurance holding company are subject to the same requirements, restrictions, and limitations as provided in this Code section to which the shares of the merging or consolidating reorganized stock insurers or intermediate stock holding companies were subject as provided in this Code section prior to the merger or consolidation.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 120,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
