# § 33-13A-2. Definitions

(1) "Intermediate stock holding company" means one or more stock corporations that own all of the shares of voting stock of one or more reorganized stock insurers after a reorganization under Code Section 33-13A-3 or a merger under Code Section 33-13A-4.
(2) "Majority of the voting stock of the reorganized stock insurer" means shares of the capital stock of the reorganized stock insurer that carry the right to cast a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by all of the outstanding shares of the capital stock of the reorganized stock insurer for the election of directors and on all other matters submitted to a vote of the shareholders of the reorganized stock insurer. The ownership of a majority of the voting stock of the reorganized stock insurer that is required pursuant to this chapter to be at all times owned by a mutual insurance holding company includes indirect ownership through one or more intermediate stock holding companies in a corporate structure approved by the Commissioner. However, indirect ownership through one or more intermediate stock holding companies shall not result in the mutual insurance holding company owning less than the equivalent of a majority of the voting stock of the reorganized stock insurer. The Commissioner shall have jurisdiction over an intermediate stock holding company as if it were a mutual insurance holding company.
(3) "Member" means a person who obtains a membership interest in a mutual insurance holding company by virtue of being a policyholder of a mutual insurer that is the subject of a reorganization plan under Code Section 33-13A-3 or a merger plan under Code Section 33-13A-4.
(4) "Merger plan" means a plan approved by a mutual insurer's board of directors under Code Section 33-13A-4 which proposes to merge a domestic or foreign mutual insurer into an existing mutual insurance holding company or into an intermediate stock holding company, thereby converting the domestic or foreign mutual insurer into a stock insurer.
(5) "Mutual insurance holding company" means a domestic corporation incorporated pursuant to a reorganization plan under Code Section 33-13A-3 or a merger plan under Code Section 33-13A-4, which company is the ultimate parent of a reorganized stock insurer and which may be the parent company of one or more intermediate stock holding companies.
(6) "Policyholder" means a person who is insured under one or more insurance policies or annuity contracts by a mutual insurer at the time of a reorganization under Code Section 33-13A-3 or a merger under Code Section 33-13A-4.
(7) "Reorganization plan" means a reorganization plan adopted by a mutual insurer's board of directors in accordance with Code Section 33-13A-3 or 33-13A-4 which proposes to convert the domestic or foreign mutual insurer into a stock insurer.
(8) "Reorganized stock insurer" means the domestic or foreign stock insurer resulting from a domestic or foreign mutual insurer's reorganization under Code Section 33-13A-3 or merger under Code Section 33-13A-4.
(9) "Voting stock" means securities of any class or any ownership interest having voting power for the election of directors, trustees, or management of a corporation. Voting stock shall also mean any security convertible into or evidencing a right to acquire a voting security.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 120,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
