# § 46-4-160.2. Requirements of marketer for billing errors; requiring written request for credit or refund prohibited

(a) Whenever a marketer discovers or has called to its attention a billing error or other mistake reported to or acknowledged by the marketer, the marketer shall have 30 days to correct the billing error from the date said error is reported to or acknowledged by the marketer. If the marketer does not correct the billing error, the burden of proof shall be on the marketer to show why the bill is correct. During the period the billing error is being disputed, the marketer shall neither impose a late fee or penalty on the disputed amount nor initiate an action to disconnect the customer's service or collect on the past due balance, if the disputed amount constitutes the total amount of the past due balance. In the event the billing error results in an overpayment by a retail customer of said marketer, such marketer shall be required automatically and immediately to provide:
  (1) A credit of the amount of the overpayment to the account of the customer; or
  (2) A refund of the amount of the overpayment to the customer.
(b) A marketer shall be prohibited from requiring a retail customer to whom it owes a credit or refund to submit in writing a request for such credit or refund before the marketer complies with the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section. All credits to the account of the customer or refunds to the customer shall be made within 60 days after the overpayment has been acknowledged or admitted to by the marketer.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 499, § 17, eff. 4/25/2002.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 338, §4, eff. 4/27/2001.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 369, §4, eff. 4/28/2001.
