# § 46-4-60. Adoption by Board of Natural Resources of rules and regulations governing construction, installation, utilization, and operation of underground reservoirs and stations, wells, fixtures, and other facilities; enforcement of rules and regulations; inspection and examination

(a) The Board of Natural Resources shall adopt rules and regulations prescribing minimum standards reasonably necessary for the protection of the health, welfare, and safety of the public. Such rules and regulations shall govern the construction, installation, utilization, and operation of underground reservoirs and the stations, wells, fixtures, machinery, and other facilities used in connection therewith, and shall govern the condition in which such reservoirs and facilities are to be kept. The commissioner of natural resources or any other interested party may commence a civil action for the enforcement of such rules and regulations against any offending gas utility or other party by filing a complaint in the superior court of any county where the whole or any part of a violation of such rules and regulations occurs.
(b) The Department of Natural Resources, shall from time to time inspect and examine the methods of construction, maintenance, utilization, and operation exercised in connection with all underground reservoirs and the stations, wells, fixtures, machinery, and other facilities used in connection therewith, and shall inspect and examine the condition of all such reservoirs and facilities. One such inspection and examination shall be made each calendar year (at a time selected by the commissioner) by an independent qualified engineer employed by the gas utility and approved by the commissioner. A written report of such inspection and examination shall be filed with the commissioner and the Public Service Commission within 30 days after the time selected for the inspection and examination. Whenever the commissioner determines that any such underground reservoir or facility used in connection therewith is unsafe and dangerous, he shall immediately issue a written order to the gas utility responsible therefor directing it to correct such unsafe and dangerous condition within the time specified in the order. If the gas utility fails to comply with such order within the time prescribed, the commissioner may commence an action in the superior court of the county where the whole or any part of such unsafe or dangerous condition exists to compel the correction of same. If the court finds that such order is reasonable and just, it shall enter an appropriate decree compelling obedience to and compliance with such order and may grant such other relief as may be just and proper.
