# § 46-4-113. Bond anticipation notes

(a) The authority shall have the power and is authorized, whenever revenue bonds of the authority have been validated as provided in Code Section 46-4-101, to issue from time to time its negotiable notes in anticipation of the issuance of such bonds as validated and to renew from time to time any such notes by the issuance of new notes, regardless of whether the notes to be renewed have matured. The authority may issue notes only to provide funds which would otherwise be provided by the issuance of the bonds as validated. The notes may be authorized, sold, executed, and delivered in the same manner as bonds.
(b) Any resolution authorizing notes of the authority or any issue thereof may contain any provisions which the authority is authorized to include in any resolution authorizing bonds of the authority or any issue thereof; and the authority may include in any notes any terms, covenants, or conditions which it is authorized to include in any bonds.
(c) All notes shall be general obligations of the authority, payable out of any of its funds or revenues, subject only to any contractual rights of the holders of any of its notes or other obligations then outstanding, provided that there may be specially pledged to the payment of such notes the proceeds to be derived from the issuance of the validated bonds in anticipation of the issuance of which the notes have been issued.
(d) Validation of such bonds shall be a condition precedent to the issuance of such notes, but it shall not be required that such notes be judicially validated.
(e) Bond anticipation notes shall not be issued in an amount exceeding the par value of the bonds in anticipation of which they are to be issued.
