# § 46-4-158.1. Rules and regulations; reporting on service quality; noncompliance with service quality standards; third party forecasting; independent auditors; gas held in storage for marketer

(a)
  (1) Not later than September 1, 2002, the commission shall promulgate rules and regulations to establish service quality standards for each electing distribution company, including, but not limited to, minimum performance standards for posting data on the electronic bulletin board; meter reading; meter turn-ons and turn-offs; forecasting; call center response times; lost and unaccounted for natural gas; acquiring and managing interstate capacity assets, including retained storage; and any other service quality standards deemed necessary by the commission.
  (2) Not later than September 1, 2002, the commission shall promulgate rules and regulations to establish service quality standards for each certificated marketer and regulated provider, which may include minimum performance standards for call center response times, billing, meter reading, and any other service quality standards deemed necessary by the commission. Each service quality standard adopted by the commission applicable to an electing distribution company shall also apply to each certificated marketer and each regulated provider to the extent that a certificated marketer or a regulated provider provides the same customer services.
(b) Each electing distribution company, certificated marketer, and regulated provider shall file reports with the commission showing its performance with regard to service quality standards established in accordance with this Code section. Such reports shall be filed at least quarterly, or on a more frequent basis if ordered by the commission.
(c) Failure to comply with service quality standards established in accordance with this Code section shall subject an electing distribution company, certificated marketer, or regulated provider to fines as determined by the commission.
(d) At least annually the commission shall conduct a proceeding to review compliance with the service quality standards by the electing distribution company, certificated marketer, and regulated provider.
(e) If the commission determines that an electing distribution company has failed to satisfactorily meet the performance standards for system forecasting, including setting the daily supply requirement and the marketer firm obligation, or has otherwise demonstrated an inability to perform such function properly, then the commission may enter an order relieving the electing distribution company of its system forecasting responsibilities and may establish a competitive request for proposal process to select an independent entity with the technical and financial ability to perform the role of system forecasting, including setting the daily supply requirement and the marketer firm obligation. The agreement for system forecasting shall include standards for evaluating the performance of the forecaster and for awarding incentives for superior performance and imposing disincentives for unsatisfactory performance. The commission shall establish an appropriate mechanism to recover the cost of performing such functions.
(f) If the commission determines that the public interest would be served thereby, the commission may enter an order establishing a competitive request for proposal process to select an independent auditor or auditors for the purpose of examining:
  (1) The daily, monthly, and annual accounting of transactions among each electing distribution company, its affiliated companies, and certificated marketers; and
  (2) Compliance with the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of Code Section 46-4-159.
(g) Any independent auditor selected in accordance with subsection (f) of this Code section shall prepare a semiannual audit report to the commission. Unless a written objection clearly specifying one or more errors or inaccuracies in the audit report is filed within ten days after the audit report is filed with the commission, the audit report shall be accepted by the commission. If an objection is filed, the commission shall conduct an expedited hearing within ten days after the objection is filed to determine whether to accept the audit report. A final decision shall be issued five days after such a hearing. An audit report, along with its status as accepted or not accepted by the commission, shall be admissible in any litigation relating to transactions described or evaluated in the audit report.
(h) Sale of gas held in storage for a certificated marketer to third parties by an electing distribution company shall be prohibited; provided, however, that use of gas held in storage for a certificated marketer by the electing distribution company to ensure system balancing and reliability shall not be prohibited.

## History

Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 499, § 15, eff. 4/25/2002.
