# § 46-4-157. Temporary directives

(a) If, in an expedited hearing pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act":
  (1) The commission determines for a specific delivery group, as to which the commission has issued an order pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 46-4-156, that the prices for natural gas paid by firm retail customers in such delivery group are not constrained by market forces and are significantly higher than such prices would be if they were constrained by market forces; or
  (2) The commission determines for a specific delivery group, as to which the commission has not issued an order pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 46-4-156, that the prices charged by an electing distribution company to consumers for commodity sales services, which prices have not been approved by the commission pursuant to Code Section 46-2-26.5, are generally not constrained by market forces and are significantly higher than such prices would be if they were constrained by market forces, then the commission, on an emergency basis, may by order temporarily impose such directives on gas companies subject to its jurisdiction as are required to protect the interests of firm retail customers in such delivery group including but not limited to price regulations and the imposition upon the electing distribution company of the obligation to serve retail customers in such delivery group under the same or similar conditions to those under which such customers were served prior to customer assignment in such delivery group. In no event shall such emergency directives extend beyond the first day of July immediately following the next full annual session of the General Assembly after the imposition of such directives. In its order the commission shall provide for recovery of all costs reasonably incurred by the electing distribution company in complying with the directives. Any such directives shall be drawn as narrowly as possible to accomplish the purpose of protecting the public on an interim basis. No such directive shall impose any condition upon the electing distribution company which unreasonably burdens the company. Such directives shall be immediately reviewable in the Superior Court of Fulton County in the same manner and subject to the same procedures as the review of any other contested case under the provisions of Code Section 50-13-19.
(b) If, in an expedited hearing pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," the commission makes any of the determinations described in subsection (c) or (d) of this Code section, the commission may, on a temporary basis, by order impose on marketers such directives as are required to protect the interest of firm retail customers in a specific delivery group, including but not limited to price regulations. In no event shall such emergency directives extend beyond the first day of July in the year immediately following imposition of such directives. Any such directives shall be drawn as narrowly as possible to accomplish the purpose of protecting the public on an interim basis. Such directives shall be immediately reviewable in the Superior Court of Fulton County in the same manner and subject to the same procedures as the review of any other contested case under the provisions of Code Section 50-13-19.
(c) Upon determination by the commission that market conditions are no longer competitive, the commission may impose directives as described in subsection (b) of this Code section. For purposes of this subsection, there shall be a rebuttable presumption that market conditions are not competitive if more than 90 percent of firm retail customers in a specific delivery group are served by three or fewer marketers; provided, however, that marketers who are affiliates shall be deemed to be one marketer for purposes of this subsection.
(d) Upon determination by the commission, based upon a standard previously adopted by rule of the commission, that prices paid by firm retail customers for natural gas in a specific delivery group are not constrained by market forces and are significantly higher than such prices would be if they were constrained by market forces, the commission may impose directives as described in subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 499, § 13, eff. 4/25/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 369, § 2, eff. 4/28/2001.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 338, §2, eff. 4/27/2001.
