# § 46-4-57. Exercise of right of eminent domain by gas utilities

(a) Any gas utility shall have the right of eminent domain, to be exercised in the manner provided in Title 22, to acquire for its use any underground reservoir for the storage of gas, as well as such other property or interests in property as may be required to explore adequately for, examine, prepare, maintain, utilize, and operate such underground reservoir for the storage of gas, including easements and rights of way for access to and egress from such underground storage reservoir.
(b) Without limiting the generality of subsection (a) of this Code section, a gas utility may condemn the following rights in property for use in connection with the underground storage of gas:
  (1) The right to conduct such operations, including the drilling of test holes or wells, as may be necessary or convenient to determine the suitability of a geological stratum or formation for the underground storage of gas;
  (2) The right to lay, operate, and maintain pipes and pipelines necessary or convenient for the transportation of gas to and from the underground reservoir;
  (3) The right to prepare, establish, maintain, utilize, and operate the underground reservoir for the storage of gas in and the injection of gas into the reservoir and the withdrawal of gas from the reservoir; and
  (4) The right to install, operate, and maintain any stations, wells, fixtures, machinery, and other facilities necessary or convenient in connection with any of the operations described in this subsection.
(c) The right of eminent domain granted by this Code section shall apply to property or property interests held by private owners, by the State of Georgia or by any political subdivision of the state, by any municipal corporation, or by any other public or quasi-public body.
(d) Any property or interest therein acquired by any gas utility pursuant to this Code section shall be used exclusively for the purposes for which it was acquired.
(e) The right of eminent domain granted by this Code section is cumulative of any other right of eminent domain now possessed by any gas utility or public utility to condemn property for use in its operations. The power of eminent domain which was granted and conferred by Ga. L. 1929, p. 219, upon persons engaged in constructing or operating pipelines for the transportation or distribution of natural or artificial gas and upon persons engaged in furnishing natural or artificial gas for heating, lighting, or power purposes in this state, and the manner of exercising such power of eminent domain as provided in Chapter 1 of Title 22 and Article 1 of Chapter 2 of Title 22 is ratified, confirmed, and continued.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 46, eff. 5/13/2004.
