# § 46-4-91. Annual and special meetings

(a) The annual meeting of the authority shall be held on the anniversary date of the first meeting of the authority unless the date, time, and place of such annual meeting shall otherwise be fixed by resolution of the authority.
(b) Special meetings of the authority may be called by resolution of the authority, by the chairman or vice chairman, or upon the written request of at least three members of the authority.
(c) Written notice of all meetings shall be delivered to each political subdivision contracting with the authority and to each member of the authority not less than ten days prior to the date of such meeting in the case of regular meetings and not less than three days prior to the date of such meeting in the case of special meetings.
(d) Notice of a meeting of the authority need not be given to any member who signs a waiver of notice either before or after the meeting. Attendance of a member at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting and a waiver of any and all objections to the place or time of the meeting or to the manner in which it has been called or convened, except when a member states at the beginning of the meeting any such objection or objections to the transaction of business. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the authority need be specified in the notice or the waiver of notice of such meetings.
(e) In addition to the annual meeting of the authority, regular meetings of the authority may be established by resolution of the authority; and no notice, other than notice of the adoption of such resolution conveyed to any member of the authority who was absent when it was adopted, shall be required for such meeting, except for the notice required by subsection (c) of this Code section.
