# § 46-4-158. Obligations of an electing distribution company; conditions

(a) An electing distribution company which provides firm distribution service under this article must:
  (1) Offer an allocation of such distribution service to marketers separately from any commodity sales service or other service;
  (2) Provide such allocation of such distribution service to marketers without undue discrimination or preference, including undue discrimination or preference in the quality of service provided, the duration of service, the categories, prices, or volumes of natural gas to be distributed, customer classification, or other undue discrimination or preference of any kind;
  (3) Provide all marketers with equal and timely access to information relevant to the availability of such service, including without limitation the availability of capacity at delivery points, through the use of an electronic bulletin board; and
  (4) Cooperate with each certificated marketer and each regulated provider of natural gas to achieve the intentions of this article set out in subsection (b) of Code Section 46-4-151.
(b) An electing distribution company may impose reasonable operational conditions on any firm distribution service provided to marketers under this article. Such conditions must be filed by the electing firm distribution company as part of its firm distribution tariff.
(c) An electing distribution company which allocates firm distribution service to marketers under this article is not required to provide any requested firm distribution service for which capacity is not available or that would require the construction or acquisition of any new facilities.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 499, § 14, eff. 4/25/2002.
