# § 46-4-54. Investigation by state geologist of site of proposed storage project; procedures involving state geologist; investigation of proposed storage project by director of Environmental Protection Division; procedures involving director; investigation of proposed storage project by commission

(a) Upon receiving the notice of the hearing and the copy of the application, the state geologist shall immediately initiate an investigation of the site of the proposed storage project for the purpose of determining the facts involved in the findings which the Public Service Commission is required to consider in preparing an order under Code Section 46-4-55 and for the purpose of such other matters as the state geologist or the Public Service Commission may deem relevant in evaluating the feasibility and safety features of the proposed underground storage project. The gas utility shall make available to the state geologist for his consideration and evaluation all geological and reservoir engineering studies and other information in the utility's possession concerning the proposed underground storage project. The state geologist shall complete his investigation and shall file a written report of same with the Public Service Commission prior to the date of the hearing. The state geologist and any members of his staff having knowledge of the investigation may be called as witnesses at the hearing.
(b) Upon receiving the notice of the hearing and the copy of the application, the director of the Environmental Protection Division shall immediately initiate an investigation of the proposed storage project for the purpose of determining whether such project will injure, pollute, or contaminate any usable fresh-water resources. The director shall complete his investigation and shall file a written report of same with the Public Service Commission prior to the date of the hearing. The director and any member of his staff having knowledge of the investigation may be called as witnesses at the hearing.
(c) At any time after the filing of the application under Code Section 46-4-53, but prior to the time of entering an order approving or disapproving same, the commission may conduct an investigation of the site of the proposed underground storage project for the purpose of determining any matters relevant to the consideration of such application or may cause such investigation to be made by an independent qualified engineer or geologist, or both, selected by the commission and paid by the gas utility.
