# § 52-6-49. Liabilities and penalties for failure to take pilot or pay pilotage fees

(a) Any vessel that fails to take a pilot required under this chapter or that is operated in violation of any other requirement of this chapter or the regulations adopted by the commissioners under the authority of this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty by the commissioners in an amount not to exceed $25,000.00 per violation. Any vessel assessed such a penalty shall be liable in rem for the payment of the penalty amount.
(b) The owner, charterer, managing operator, master, or individual in charge of a vessel that fails to take a pilot required under this chapter or who violates any other requirement of this chapter or the regulations adopted by the commissioners under the authority of this chapter may be assessed a civil penalty by the commissioners in an amount not to exceed $25,000.00 per violation.
(c) Any owner, charterer, managing operator, master, or individual in charge of a vessel who knowingly and willfully refuses to take a pilot required under this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d) Any vessel and the owner, charterer, managing operator, master, or individual in charge of the vessel that fails to take a pilot required under this chapter or that fails to pay the applicable pilotage fee when a pilot has been taken shall be liable to the first pilot who offered pilotage services, in the case of a vessel failing to take a required pilot, or to the pilot who performed the pilotage services, in the case of a vessel taking the pilot but failing to pay the pilotage fee, for the full amount of the applicable pilotage fee. The pilot is given a lien on the vessel and its tackle, apparel, and furniture for the collection of the fees.
(e) The liabilities and penalties provided for in this Code section are cumulative and are in addition to any rights or remedies available to a pilot or pilots, the commissioners, or to the state under any other law.
