# § 10-4-2. Definitions

(1) "Agricultural product" means individually and collectively all grains, cotton, meat, fruits, vegetables, and other farm products offered or accepted for storage in their raw or natural state; provided, however, that products which have been processed only to the extent of shelling, cleaning, and grading shall be included; and, provided, further, that any warehouseman storing refrigerated or processed agricultural products may, at his option, come under the operation of this article.
(2) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Agriculture.
(3) "Grain" means all products commonly classed as grain, such as wheat, corn, oats, barley, rye, rice, field peas, soybeans, clover, grain sorghum, and other products ordinarily stored in grain warehouses.
(4) "Person" means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, or other organized group having a joint or common interest.
(5) "Producer" means a farmer or grower of agricultural products.
(6) "Public warehouse" or "warehouse" means any building, structure, or other enclosure other than a refrigerated building or structure in this state at which any agricultural product is received from the public for storage for hire.
(7) "Receipt" means a warehouse receipt issued under this article.
(8) "Storer" means the depositor of agricultural products stored under a nonnegotiable receipt or the holder of a negotiable receipt for such products issued by a warehouseman licensed under this article.
(9) "Warehouseman" means a person engaged in the business of operating a warehouse or any person who uses or undertakes to use a warehouse for the purpose of storing agricultural products for compensation for more than one person; provided, however, that any person operating a warehouse not covered by this article may elect to come under this article.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
