# § 10-4-14. Actions on bonds

(a) Any person claiming that he or she has been damaged by a breach of the conditions of a bond given by a licensee as provided in Code Section 10-4-12 may enter a complaint to the Commissioner. Such complaint shall be a written statement of the facts constituting the complaint and must be made within 180 days of the alleged breach. If the Commissioner determines that the complaint is prima facie a breach of the bond, and the matter can not be amicably resolved within 15 days, the Commissioner shall publish a solicitation for additional complaints regarding breaches of the bond for a period of not less than five consecutive issues in a newspaper of general circulation and in such other publications as the Commissioner shall prescribe. Additional complaints must be filed within 60 days following initial public notification of a breach of the bond. Civil actions on the breach of such bond shall not be commenced less than 120 days nor more than 547 days from the initial date of public notification of such breach of the bond.
(b) Upon the filing of the complaint in the manner provided in this Code section, the Commissioner shall investigate the charges made and, at his discretion, order a hearing before him or his hearing officer giving all parties concerned notice of the filing of such complaint and the time and place of such hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Commissioner shall report his findings and render his conclusion concerning the complaint to the complainant and respondent in the case, who shall have 15 days following such report in which to make effective and satisfy the Commissioner's conclusions.
(c) If such settlement is not effected within such time, the Commissioner or the claimant may institute appropriate legal proceedings to enforce the claim. If the claimant is not satisfied with the ruling of the Commissioner, he may commence and maintain an action against the principal and surety on the bond of the parties against whom the complaint is registered, as in any civil action.
(d) If the bond or collateral posted is insufficient to pay the valid claims of claimants in full, the Commissioner may direct that the proceeds of the bond shall be divided pro rata among the claimants.
