# § 10-4-218. Deemed acceptance of rental agreement; notice of termination or nonrenewal; removal of personal property

(a) If within 14 days of the delivery of a written rental agreement by hand delivery or verified mail by the owner to the occupant the occupant fails to sign such rental agreement, the occupant's continued use of the storage space shall be deemed an acceptance of the rental agreement and such rental agreement shall be enforceable against the occupant as if it had been signed by the occupant, provided said agreement states in bold type no smaller than 12 point font: "THE OCCUPANT'S CONTINUED USE OF THE STORAGE SPACE SHALL BE DEEMED AN ACCEPTANCE OF THE RENTAL AGREEMENT AND SUCH RENTAL AGREEMENT SHALL BE ENFORCEABLE AGAINST THE OCCUPANT AS IF IT HAD BEEN SIGNED BY THE OCCUPANT".
(b) An occupant shall not use a self-service storage facility after the owner has delivered written notice by hand delivery or verified mail of the termination or nonrenewal of the occupant's rental agreement. Such notice shall provide the occupant with not less than 14 days after delivery of such notice to remove all personal property from the self-service storage facility.
(c) Prior to the occupant's removal of all personal property from a self-service storage facility pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, the owner may place reasonable restrictions on the occupant's use of the self-service storage facility, including denying access to the self-service storage facility except for the occupant to remove personal property during the owner's normal business hours. The owner may dispose of any personal property remaining at the self-service storage facility after the date provided in the written notice pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 577,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
