# § 10-4-211. Definitions

(1) "Email" means an electronic message or an executable program or computer file that contains an image of a message that is transmitted between two or more computers or electronic terminals. The term includes electronic messages that are transmitted within or between computer networks.
(2) "Last known address" means the street address, post office box address, or email address provided by the occupant in the latest rental agreement or the address provided by the occupant in a subsequent written notice of a change of address by hand delivery, verified mail, or email.
(3) "Occupant" means a person, his or her sublessee, successor, or assign entitled to the use of the storage space at a self-service storage facility under a rental agreement, to the exclusion of others.
(4) "Owner" means the operator, lessor, or sublessor of, or person having an ownership interest in, a self-service storage facility; an agent of such operator, lessor, or sublessor; or any other person authorized to manage the facility or to receive rent from an occupant under a rental agreement.
(5) "Personal property" means movable property not affixed to land and includes, but is not limited to, goods, wares, merchandise, motor vehicles, trailers, watercraft, and household items and furnishings.
(6) "Rental agreement" means any agreement or lease, written or oral, that establishes or modifies the terms, conditions, rules, or any other provisions concerning the use and occupancy of a self-service storage facility.
(7) "Self-service storage facility" means any real property designed and used for the purpose of renting or leasing individual storage space to occupants who are to have access to such for the purpose of storing and removing personal property; provided, however, that such term shall not mean a:
  (A) Warehouse within the meaning of Article 1 of this chapter, known as the "Georgia State Warehouse Act"; or
  (B) Safe-deposit box or vault maintained by banks, trust companies, or other financial entities.
(8) "Verified mail" means certified mail, registered mail, statutory overnight delivery, or other method of mailing or delivery in which the post office or delivery service furnishes proof that the parcel was sent.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 258,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 172,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 777, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
