# § 36-64-15. Removal of minimum or maximum recreation tax by municipality or county

(a) If a municipality or county has adopted the provisions of this chapter at an election, thereby establishing a minimum recreation tax, a maximum recreation tax, or a minimum and maximum recreation tax, then such minimum or maximum or both may be removed as provided in this Code section.
(b) In order to so remove the minimum or maximum or both, the governing body of the municipality or county shall adopt a resolution to that effect, subject to approval by a majority of the voters of the municipality or county at the next general or special election of the municipality or county which is held more than 45 days after the date of the adoption of the resolution by the governing body. Such resolution shall specify the ballot language to be used in presenting the question and the governing body shall provide a copy of the resolution to the appropriate election officials. If a majority of the voters voting on the question of removal vote in favor, the minimum or maximum or both shall be removed as presented to the voters.
(c) Where a minimum or maximum or both has or have been removed as authorized by this Code section, the amount of municipal or county funding for the recreation system of the municipality or county shall thereafter be determined by the governing body of the municipality or county in its discretion; and the municipal or county governing body shall assume budgetary control over the recreation fund and any moneys therein.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 693,§ 1, eff. 5/14/2008.
