# § 44-5-146. Role and authority of people other than donor

(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (g) of this Code section and subject to subsection (f) of this Code section, in the absence of an express, contrary indication by the donor, a person other than the donor is barred from making, amending, or revoking an anatomical gift of a donor's body or part if the donor made an anatomical gift of the donor's body or part under Code Section 44-5-143 or an amendment to an anatomical gift of the donor's body or part under Code Section 44-5-144.
(b) A donor's revocation of an anatomical gift of the donor's body or part under Code Section 44-5-144 is not a refusal and does not bar another person specified in Code Sections 44-5-142 and 44-5-147 from making an anatomical gift of the donor's body or part under Code Section 44-5-143 or 44-5-148.
(c) If a person other than the donor makes an unrevoked anatomical gift of the donor's body or part under Code Section 44-5-143 or an amendment to an anatomical gift of the donor's body or part under Code Section 44-5-144, another person may not make, amend, or revoke the gift of the donor's body or part under Code Section 44-5-148.
(d) A revocation of an anatomical gift of a donor's body or part under Code Section 44-5-144 by a person other than the donor does not bar another person from making an anatomical gift of the body or part under Code Section 44-5-143 or 44-5-148.
(e) In the absence of an express, contrary indication by the donor or other person authorized to make an anatomical gift under Code Section 44-5-142, an anatomical gift of a part is neither a refusal to give another part nor a limitation on the making of an anatomical gift of another part at a later time by the donor or another person.
(f) In the absence of an express, contrary indication by the donor or other person authorized to make an anatomical gift under Code Section 44-5-142, an anatomical gift of a part for one or more of the purposes set forth in Code Section 44-5-142 is not a limitation on the making of an anatomical gift of the part for any of the other purposes by the donor or any other person under Code Section 44-5-143 or 44-5-148.
(g) If a donor who is an unemancipated minor dies, a parent of the donor who is reasonably available may revoke or amend an anatomical gift of the donor's body or part.
(h) If an unemancipated minor who signed a refusal dies, a parent of the minor who is reasonably available may revoke the minor's refusal.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 545,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
