# § 44-5-147. Classes of persons available to make donations; priority

(a) Subject to subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section and unless barred by Code Section 44-5-145 or 44-5-146, an anatomical gift of a decedent's body or part for the purpose of transplantation, therapy, research, or education may be made by any member of the following classes of persons who is reasonably available, in the order of priority listed:
  (1) An agent of the decedent at the time of death who could have made an anatomical gift under paragraph (2) of Code Section 44-5-142 immediately before the decedent's death;
  (2) The spouse of the decedent;
  (3) Adult children of the decedent;
  (4) Parents of the decedent;
  (5) Adult siblings of the decedent;
  (6) Adult grandchildren of the decedent;
  (7) Grandparents of the decedent;
  (8) The persons who were acting as the guardians of the person of the decedent at the time of death;
  (9) Any other person having the authority to dispose of the decedent's body; and
  (10) A representative ad litem who shall be appointed by a court of competent jurisdiction forthwith upon a petition heard ex parte filed by any person, which representative ad litem shall ascertain that no person of higher priority exists and is reasonably available who objects to the gift of all or any part of the decedent's body and that no evidence exists of the decedent's having made a communication expressing a desire that his or her body or body parts not be donated upon death.
(b) If there is more than one member of a class listed in paragraph (1), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), or (8) of subsection (a) of this Code section entitled to make an anatomical gift, an anatomical gift may be made by a member of the class only if the person to which the gift may pass under Code Section 44-5-149 in good faith obtains a representation from the member that the member does not know of an objection by another member of the class. If an objection is known, the gift may be made only by a majority of the members of the class who are reasonably available.
(c) A person may not make an anatomical gift if, at the time of the decedent's death, a person in a prior class under subsection (a) of this Code section is reasonably available to make or to object to the making of an anatomical gift.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 545,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
