# § 44-5-158. Donor registry

(a) The Department of Driver Services shall make available to procurement organizations or secure data centers maintained and managed at the direction of a procurement organization the name, license number, date of birth, gender, and most recent address of any person who obtains an organ donor's license; provided, however, that the gender information shall only be made available to a procurement organization or secure data center if such organization or center has sufficient funds to cover the associated costs with providing such information. Information so obtained by such organizations shall be used for the purpose of establishing a state-wide organ donor registry accessible to organ tissue and eye banks authorized to function as such in this state and shall not be further disseminated.
(b) A donor registry shall:
  (1) Allow a donor or other person authorized under Code Section 44-5-142 to include on the donor registry a statement or symbol that the donor has made, amended, or revoked an anatomical gift;
  (2) Be accessible to a procurement organization to allow it to obtain relevant information on the donor registry to determine, at or near death of the donor or a prospective donor, whether the donor or prospective donor has made, amended, or revoked an anatomical gift; and
  (3) Be accessible for purposes of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection seven days a week on a 24 hour basis.
(c) Personally identifiable information on a donor registry about a donor or prospective donor may not be used or disclosed without the express consent of the donor, prospective donor, or person that made the anatomical gift for any purpose other than to determine, at or near death of the donor or prospective donor, whether the donor or prospective donor has made, amended, or revoked an anatomical gift; provided, however, this shall not preclude the use of aggregated demographic information for the purposes of annual reporting, research, or education.
(d) This Code section does not prohibit any person from creating or maintaining a donor registry that is not established by or under contract with this state. Any such registry shall comply with subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 545,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
