# § 44-5-143. Method to make an anatomical gift

(a) A donor may make an anatomical gift:
  (1) By authorizing a statement or symbol indicating that the donor has made an anatomical gift to be imprinted on the donor's driver's license or identification card;
  (2) In a will;
  (3) During a terminal illness or injury of the donor, by any form of communication addressed to at least two adults, at least one of whom is a disinterested witness;
  (4) By granting power pursuant to a durable power of attorney for health care or advance directive for health care under Chapter 32 of Title 31; or
  (5) As provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) A donor or other person authorized to make an anatomical gift under Code Section 44-5-142 may make a gift by a donor card or other record signed by the donor or other person making the gift or by authorizing that a statement or symbol indicating that the donor has made an anatomical gift be included on a donor registry. If the donor or other person is physically unable to sign a record, the record may be signed by another individual at the direction of the donor or other person and shall:
  (1) Be witnessed by at least two adults, at least one of whom is a disinterested witness, who have signed at the request of the donor or the other person; and
  (2) State that it has been signed and witnessed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(c) Revocation, suspension, expiration, or cancellation of a driver's license or identification card upon which an anatomical gift is indicated does not invalidate the gift.
(d) An anatomical gift made by will takes effect upon the donor's death whether or not the will is probated. Invalidation of the will after the donor's death does not invalidate the gift.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 545,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 48,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2007.
