# § 44-5-60. Effect of zoning laws; covenants and scenic easements for use of public; renewal of certain covenants; costs

(a) The purchaser of lands obtains with the title, whether conveyed to him at public or private sale, all the rights which any former owner of the land under whom he claims may have had by virtue of any covenants of warranty of title, of quiet enjoyment, or of freedom from encumbrances contained in the conveyance from any former grantor unless the transmission of such covenants with the land is expressly prohibited in the covenant itself.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, covenants restricting lands to certain uses shall not run for more than 20 years in municipalities which have adopted zoning laws nor in those areas in counties for which zoning laws have been adopted; provided, however, that whenever a zoning ordinance, upon its initial enactment by a county or municipality, expressly acknowledges the continuing application of a covenant restricting lands to certain uses within that jurisdiction, any such covenant, if created prior to zoning laws being adopted by that county or municipality, shall continue to be effective in such jurisdiction until the expiration of such covenant in accordance with its terms.
(c) The limitation provided in subsection (b) of this Code section shall not apply with respect to any covenant or scenic easement in favor of or for the benefit of the United States or any department, bureau, or agency thereof; this state or any political subdivision thereof; or any corporation, trust, or other organization holding land for the use of the public, but only with respect to such covenants and scenic easements running in favor of or for the benefit of the land so held for the use of the public. Such covenants and scenic easements shall run in perpetuity.
(d)
  (1) Notwithstanding the limitation provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, covenants restricting lands to certain uses affecting planned subdivisions containing no fewer than 15 individual plots shall automatically be renewed beyond the period provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section unless terminated as provided in this subsection. Each such renewal shall be for an additional 20 year period, and there shall be no limit on the number of times such covenants shall be renewed.
  (2) To terminate a covenant as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection, at least 51 percent of the persons owning plots affected by such covenant shall execute a document containing a legal description of the entire area affected by the covenant, a list of the names of all record owners of plots affected by the covenant, and a description of the covenant to be terminated, which may be incorporated by reference to another recorded document. By signing such document, each such person shall verify that he or she is a record owner of property affected by the covenant. Such document shall be recorded in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county where the land is located no sooner than but within two years prior to the expiration of the initial 20 year period or any subsequent 20 year period. The clerk of the superior court shall index the document under the name of each record owner appearing in the document.
  (3) No covenant that prohibits the use or ownership of property within the subdivision may discriminate based on race, creed, color, age, sex, or national origin.
  (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code section or of any covenants with respect to the land, no change in the covenants which imposes a greater restriction on the use or development of the land will be enforced unless agreed to in writing by the owner of the affected property at the time such change is made.
  (5)
    (A) Notwithstanding and prior to the usual expiration of the period of covenants restricting land to certain uses affecting planned subdivisions containing no fewer than 15 individual plots as provided for by this subsection, the right to control any entity formed for the purpose of enforcing such covenants may pass to the subdivision plot owners as provided in this paragraph if such entity fails to do any of the following:
      (i) Incorporate or maintain an annual registration pursuant to the terms of the covenants;
      (ii) Cause the board of directors to be duly appointed and the officers to be elected pursuant to the terms of the covenants;
      (iii) Maintain and make available to owners, upon written request, a list of the names and business or home addresses of the entity's current directors and officers;
      (iv) Call meetings of the members of the entity in accordance with the provisions of the covenants;
      (v) Prepare an annual operating budget, establish the annual assessment, and distribute such budget and notice of assessment to plot owners in accordance with the provisions of the covenants no later than 30 days after the beginning of the entity's fiscal year; or
      (vi) Pay property taxes on common property in the planned subdivision for two or more years.
    (B) In the event that an entity formed for the purpose of enforcing covenants restricting land to certain uses fails to meet one or more of the obligations of this paragraph, then any plot owner, acting individually or jointly with other plot owners, may send such entity written notice of the failure to comply with such requirements and provide the entity a 30 day opportunity to cure the failure; and such notice shall be sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the entity's principal office. If the entity fails to cure any or all deficiencies identified in the notice within 30 days of such notice, then any plot owner, acting individually or jointly with other plot owners, shall have standing individually, and not solely through a derivative action, to institute an action in the superior court of the county in which any portion of the entity is located in order to obtain declaratory judgment to grant the plot owner or owners control of the entity by ordering an election and setting the terms thereof, or issuing any other orders appropriate to transfer control of the entity. The superior court shall have authority to hold a hearing and issue a summary ruling on said action at any time designated by the court not earlier than 20 days after the service thereof, unless the parties consent in writing to an earlier trial. No discovery shall be had unless ordered by the court for good cause. In addition, the superior court shall be authorized to issue a summary ruling on the conveyance of any intended common areas or other property in the common interest community to the association or other appropriate entity. If the plot owner or owners prevail in such action, then the superior court shall award to the plot owner or owners all reasonable attorney's fees and costs incurred for the prosecution of such action. This paragraph shall not be the basis for any liability against any party or agent of any party outside of the exclusive remedies provided herein.
  (6) In every planned subdivision containing no fewer than 15 individual plots, every person owning plots affected by such covenant owner and all those entitled to occupy such property shall comply with all lawful provisions of said covenants and the instrument containing such covenants. Any lack of such compliance shall be grounds for an action to recover sums due; for damages; for injunctive relief; or for any other remedy available at law or in equity, maintainable by a homeowners' association or other common interest community association which has been created pursuant to those covenants. Such association, if any, may pursue injunctive relief without the need or requirement to first pursue or utilize any other remedies, regardless of whether other remedies may be available or might otherwise be adequate. To the extent provided in the instrument, such association shall be empowered to impose and assess fines and temporarily suspend voting rights and the right of use of certain common areas and services paid for as a common expense in order to enforce such compliance; provided, however, that no such suspension shall deny any property owner or occupants access to the property owned or occupied. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to render any covenants in a subdivision containing fewer than 15 individuals plots unenforceable, nor shall anything in this subsection be construed to limit or expand rights of property owners or common interest community associations which may otherwise exist under Georgia law or the instruments governing such community associations, except as expressly stated in this paragraph.
(e) To the extent provided in the covenants, the obligation for the payment of assessments and fees arising from covenants shall include the costs of collection, including reasonable attorney's fees actually incurred.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 388,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 173,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 663,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 776,§ 2A, eff. 7/1/2008.
