# § 44-5-144. Amending, or revoking an anatomical gift

(a) Subject to Code Section 44-5-146, a donor or other person authorized to make an anatomical gift under Code Section 44-5-142 may amend or revoke an anatomical gift by:
  (1) A record signed by:
    (A) The donor;
    (B) The other person; or
    (C) Subject to subsection (b) of this Code section, another individual acting at the direction of the donor or the other person if the donor or other person is physically unable to sign; or
  (2) A later-executed document of gift that amends or revokes a previous anatomical gift or portion of an anatomical gift, either expressly or by inconsistency.
(b) A record signed pursuant to subparagraph (a)(1)(C) of this Code section shall:
  (1) Be witnessed by at least two adults, at least one of whom is a disinterested witness, who have signed at the request of the donor or the other person; and
  (2) State that it has been signed and witnessed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(c) Subject to Code Section 44-5-146, a donor or other person authorized to make an anatomical gift under Code Section 44-5-142 may revoke an anatomical gift by the destruction or cancellation of the document of gift, or the portion of the document of gift used to make the gift, with the intent to revoke the gift.
(d) A donor may amend or revoke an anatomical gift that was not made in a will by any form of communication during a terminal illness or injury addressed to at least two adults, at least one of whom is a disinterested witness.
(e) A donor who makes an anatomical gift in a will may amend or revoke the gift in the manner provided for amendment or revocation of wills under Chapter 4 of Title 53 or as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 545,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
