# § 44-5-165. How actual possession of lands evidenced

Actual possession of lands may be evidenced by enclosure, cultivation, or any use and occupation of the lands which is so notorious as to attract the attention of every adverse claimant and so exclusive as to prevent actual occupation by another. As to any claim which is not vested under this chapter prior to July 1, 2008, no party shall attempt to establish possession of lands for purposes of this article for any lands depicted within the applicable tract identified on the official map of any railroad filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission pursuant to the Railroad Valuation Act of March 1, 1913, Stat. 701, as amended, unless such party establishes that such occupancy interferes with the operations of such railroad corporation or railroad company; provided, however, that each railroad corporation and railroad company shall file and record such official map of the railroad with the superior court for the county in which such land depicted on such official railroad map is situated. Any court of this state shall take judicial notice of the information set forth in any such official map properly filed and recorded by such railroad corporation or railroad company. This Code section shall not be applied to adverse claims of aboveground utilities which have been initiated but which have not vested prior to July 1, 2008; provided, however, that a railroad corporation or railroad company shall not be precluded from enforcing rights of ownership against any adverse claims which have not vested.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 438,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2008.
