# § 41-1-10. Hunting operations not nuisances under certain conditions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "hunting operation" means an operation including any of the following:
  (1) Lands, including the buildings and improvements thereon, which are used or which are intended for use as a hunting club, hunting preserve, or shooting preserve;
  (2) Lands, including the buildings and improvements thereon, which are used or which are intended for use as a kennel, training facility, or field trial facility for the breeding, showing, raising or training of hunting and sporting dogs; or
  (3) Clubs, associations, partnerships, sole proprietorships, corporations and other business and social entities whose activities or holdings include the lands and uses described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection.
(b) No hunting operation shall be or shall become a nuisance, either public or private, solely as a result of changed conditions in or around the locality of such hunting operation if the hunting operation has been in operation for at least one year since the date on which it commenced activity as a hunting operation. Subsequent physical expansion of the hunting operation shall not establish a new date of commencement of activity for purposes of this Code section.
(c) No hunting operation shall be subject to any action for civil or criminal liability, damages, abatement, or injunctive relief resulting from or relating to lawful hunting activities generated by the hunting operation if the hunting operation remains in compliance with Title 27 and the rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Natural Resources pursuant to Title 27.
(d) This Code section shall not apply to hunting operations which are conducted in violation of any provision of Title 27 or the rules and regulations adopted by the Board of Natural Resources pursuant to Title 27.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 635,§ 11, eff. 6/4/2010.
Former § 41-1-10 renumbered as § 36-35-6.1 and amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 41, eff. 4/18/2002.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 368, § 5.1, eff. 7/1/2001.
