# § 36-80-26. Multi-county community improvement districts for transit projects

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term:
  (1) "County" means any county created under the Constitution or laws of this state.
  (2) "Regional transit plan" means the official multiyear plan for transit services and facilities adopted pursuant to Code Section 50-39-12.
  (3) "Transit" means regular, continuing shared-ride or shared-use surface transportation services that are made available by a public entity and are open to the general public or open to a segment of the general public defined by age, disability, or low income. Such term includes services or systems operated by or under contract with the state, a public agency or authority, a county or municipality, a community improvement district, or any other similar public entity of this state and all accompanying infrastructure and services necessary to provide access to these modes of transportation. Such term excludes charter or sightseeing services, school bus services, courtesy shuttle and intra-facility or terminal services, limousine carriers, and ride share network services, transportation referral services, and taxi services not paid for by a public entity.
  (4) "Transit projects" means and includes purposes to establish, enhance, operate, and maintain, or improve access to transit, including general obligation debt and other multiyear obligations issued to finance such projects.
(b) A community improvement district for the purpose of the provision of transit projects which are wholly or partially located in more than one county may be created under the authority granted in and consistent with the processes set forth in Section VII of Article IX of the Georgia Constitution. Any such multi-county community improvement district may be authorized to be created upon the passage of a local act of the General Assembly by each county in which such community improvement district is to be wholly or partially located. The transit projects to be provided by such community improvement district shall be projects included in the regional transit plan and through agreement with the Atlanta-region Transit Link "ATL" Authority. The administrative body of any such community improvement district shall include one member appointed by the governing authority of each county or municipality which is located wholly or partially within such community improvement district.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 409,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2019.
