# § 36-80-15. Allocation and expenditure of proceeds from timber sales from military installations and facilities

(a) The purpose of this Code section is to grant and prescribe the manner of expenditure of funds received by this state from the federal government from sales of timber from military installations and military facilities of the United States, as authorized by subsection (e) of Section 2665 of Title 10 of the United States Code, as amended by the Military Construction Authorization Act of 1982.
(b) The amount of such funds received by the state from sales from each military installation or facility shall be allocated to the county in which the installation or facility is located. If an installation or facility is located in more than one county, the amount allocated to each such county shall be the total amount derived from sales from that installation or facility times a fraction the numerator of which is the number of acres of the installation or facility in the county and the denominator of which is the number of acres of the installation or facility in the state.
(c) Of the amount allocated to each county, 50 percent shall be paid to the county governing authority and 50 percent shall be paid to the county board of education. If, however, there is an independent school district in any county to which funds are allocated, then 50 percent of the funds allocated to the county shall be paid to the county governing authority and the remaining 50 percent shall be proportionally divided among the county school district and each independent school district in the county according to the ratio which the average daily attendance for each system bears to the total average daily attendance for all systems in the county, except that if pupils in one district attend school in another district they shall for purposes of determining average daily attendance be considered as attending school in the district in which they reside.
(d) Funds received by a county governing authority shall be used only on the county road system. Funds received by a board of education may be used for any purpose for which the board may lawfully expend public funds.
(e) Funds received by the state as described in this Code section shall be administered by the state treasurer and distributed by the state treasurer as provided in this Code section not less often than annually.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
