# § 36-80-31. Transporting homeless outside of jurisdiction

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Drop off" means the act of transporting an individual to a location different from the location where the party transporting such individual assumed custody, control, or care of or provided treatment to such individual, and shall include but not be limited to directly providing or funding the transportation of such individual to such different location.
  (2) "Homeless individual" means a person who has no access to or can reasonably be expected not to have access to either traditional or permanent housing which can be considered safe, sanitary, decent, and affordable.
(b) No county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, local authority, or other local governmental unit shall drop off an individual known to be a homeless individual outside its jurisdiction unless:
  (1) Such drop-off location is in the county where such homeless individual was a resident prior to coming under the custody, control, or care of or receiving treatment from such local government or local authority; or
  (2) Such a drop off is at a facility or with a person, business, or organization that has agreed to accept such homeless individual.
(c) A county, municipal corporation, political subdivision, local authority, or other local governmental unit that violates this Code section shall be liable to any state or local governmental entity for any costs incurred by such entity in providing services for a homeless individual as a result of such violation.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 274,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2023.
Code section 36-80-29, as enacted by 2023 Ga. Laws 274 Section 3, was redesignated as Code Section 36-80-31.
