# § 36-80-19. General codification of ordinances and resolutions; publication and availability of code; official state repository for general codifications

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "local governing authority" means the governing authority of each municipality and county in this state.
(b)
  (1) Each local governing authority shall, no later than January 1, 2002, provide for the general codification of all the ordinances and resolutions of that unit of local government having the force and effect of law. Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the general codification shall be adopted by such local governing authority by ordinance and shall be published promptly, together with all amendments thereto and such local Acts of the General Assembly pertaining to the governing authority, codes of technical regulations, and other rules and regulations as the local governing authority may specify. This compilation shall be known and cited officially as "The Code of __________________, Georgia."
  (2) In cities having a population of 5,000 or less according to the most recent federal decennial census, the governing authority may at its discretion substitute a compilation of ordinances and resolutions for the codification required under paragraph (1) of this subsection. In such case, the compiled ordinances and resolutions shall, at a minimum, be arranged in a logical manner, such as by date, and should preferably include an index or other finding aids. In such case, the compilation shall be known as "The Compiled Ordinances and Resolutions of __________________, Georgia" and shall be distributed and made available in the same manner provided in this Code section for codifications.
  (3) Copies of the code, at the discretion of the local governing authority, shall be furnished to officers, departments, and agencies of the local governing authority. The code shall be made available for purchase by the public at a reasonable price as fixed by the local governing authority. Amendments to a code shall be incorporated into the general codification and published at least annually.
(c) The local governing authority shall cause each ordinance and each amendment to the general codification to be printed promptly following its adoption, and the printed ordinances and amendments shall be made available for purchase by the public at reasonable prices to be fixed by the local governing authority. Following publication of the first code under this Code section and at all times thereafter, the ordinances and amendments shall be printed in substantially the same style as the code currently in effect in such unit of local government and shall be suitable in form for incorporation therein. The local governing authority shall make such further arrangements as deemed desirable with reproduction and distribution of any current changes in or additions to codes of technical regulations and other rules and regulations included in the code.
(d) Each such general codification shall be:
  (1) Made available by posting such codification on the Internet; or
  (2) In counties which have established a county law library, furnished as a copy to the county law library.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 456,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2008.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 375, § 4, eff. 4/28/2001.
