# § 36-80-29. Electronic posting of legal notice; correction of errors

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "website" means:
  (1) A website maintained by a county or municipal legal organ;
  (2) A website maintained by a newspaper of general circulation that is not a designated legal organ;
  (3) The Georgia Public Notice website or any other website maintained by an organization or collection of two or more legal organs; or
  (4) A website maintained by a county or municipal government.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 28-1-14, in any case when a county or municipality is required to publish a legal notice in the county or municipal legal organ or other newspaper of general circulation, such notice may additionally be published by posting such notice in a conspicuous place on the website of the county or municipality, as applicable, or on a common state-wide website.
(c) In the event that an error is made in the text or publication date of a legal notice required to be published for a county or municipal government, a correction shall be made as follows:
  (1) The correct notice shall be prominently displayed within two business days of the original publication date on the website of the legal organ or newspaper of general circulation or the website of the county or municipality;
  (2) The legal organ or newspaper of general circulation shall have the correct notice posted on the Georgia Public Notice website within two business days of the original publication date; and
  (3) The correct notice shall be published in the next edition of the legal organ or newspaper of general circulation after being displayed on the required website.
(d) Postings on the required website shall remain in place until the conclusion of the event or action being advertised; provided, however, that no website as defined in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be required to maintain such posting for a period in excess of one year.
(e) A correction made as prescribed in this Code section shall be considered as having been correctly published on the original publication date and shall satisfy any and all legal requirements of adequate notice to the public.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 262,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2023.
