# § 36-80-16. Local Government Authorities Registration

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "Local Government Authorities Registration Act."
(b) The General Assembly finds that there is a need for the state to create and maintain a record of all local government authorities. Such a record can best be maintained through annual registration of all local government authorities.
(c) The purpose of this Code section is to prescribe a registration process for all local government authorities authorized to operate in the State of Georgia by general statute, local law, or local constitutional amendment.
(d) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Debt" includes all long-term or short-term credit obligations including, but not limited to, mortgages, bonds, loans, notes, interest-bearing warrants, and advances. For the purposes of this Code section, debt shall also include lease-purchase obligations.
  (2) "Local government authority" includes without limitation instrumentalities of one or more local governments created to fulfill a specialized public purpose or any other legally created organization that has authority to issue debt for a public purpose independent of a county or municipality, not to include state authorities. Local government authorities include joint authorities, regional authorities, hospital authorities, housing authorities, residential care facilities for the elderly authorities, resource recovery development authorities, solid waste management authorities, downtown development authorities, airport authorities, industrial, payroll and other development authorities, transit authorities, water and sewer authorities, parking authorities, recreation authorities, stadium and coliseum authorities, building authorities, public service authorities, or any other local government authority regardless of name. Such local government authorities may have been created by local constitutional amendment, general statute, or local law.
(e) All local government authorities authorized to operate in the State of Georgia must register annually with the Department of Community Affairs.
(f) Any local government authority which fails to register with the Department of Community Affairs shall not incur any debt or credit obligations, nor shall it be eligible for receipt of any state funds, until such time as it meets the registration requirement. Failure to register shall not have any adverse affect on any outstanding debt or credit obligation.
(g) The Department of Community Affairs shall establish registration and reporting procedures for local government authorities. Such procedures shall include, but are not limited to, information on the authority's legal name, members, function, date and means of creation, contact person, address, and telephone number.
(h) The Department of Community Affairs shall establish reasonable fees for the work related to administration and enforcement of this Code section; provided, however, no fee shall be charged or allowed for the annual registration as required in this Code section.
(i) The Department of Community Affairs shall maintain a certified list of registered local government authorities, available on request. The department shall forward annually to the judge of the probate court in any affected county the registration information for all authorities operating in that county.
(j) Local government authorities shall initially register on or before January 1, 1996, and shall register each year thereafter by the date corresponding with the due date of that authority's report as provided for in subsection (b) of Code Section 36-81-8.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 306,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
