# § 16-5-101. Neglect to a disabled adult, elder person, or resident

(a) A guardian or other person supervising the welfare of or having immediate charge, control, or custody of a disabled adult, elder person, or resident commits the offense of neglect to a disabled adult, elder person, or resident when the person willfully deprives a disabled adult, elder person, or resident of health care, shelter, or necessary sustenance to the extent that the health or well-being of such person is jeopardized.
(b) The provisions of this Code section shall not apply to a physician nor any person acting under a physician's direction nor to a hospital, hospice, or long-term care facility, nor any agent or employee thereof who is in good faith acting within the scope of his or her employment or agency or who is acting in good faith in accordance with a living will, a durable power of attorney for health care, an advance directive for health care, a psychiatric advance directive, a Physician Orders for Life-Sustaining Treatment form pursuant to Code Section 31-1-14, an order not to resuscitate, or the instructions of the patient or the patient's lawful surrogate decision maker, nor shall the provisions of this Code section require any physician, any institution licensed in accordance with Chapter 7 of Title 31, or any employee or agent thereof to provide essential services or shelter to any person in the absence of another legal obligation to do so.
(c) The provisions of this Code section shall not apply to a guardian or other person supervising the welfare of or having immediate charge, control, or custody of a disabled adult, elder person, or resident who in good faith provides treatment by spiritual means alone through prayer for the person's physical or mental condition, in lieu of medical treatment, in accordance with the practices of and written notarized consent of the person.
(d) A person who commits the offense of neglect to a disabled adult, elder person, or resident of a long-term care facility, upon conviction, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than 20 years, a fine of not more than $50,000.00, or both.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 836,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 55,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2015.
Renumbered from § 16-5-100 and amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 132,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 48,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 783, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
