# § 16-5-44.1. Hijacking a motor vehicle

(a) As used in this Code section:
  (1) "Firearm" means any handgun, rifle, shotgun, or similar device or weapon which will or can be converted to expel a projectile by the action of an explosive or electrical charge and includes stun guns and tasers as defined by subsection (a) of Code Section 16-11-106, as amended, and any replica, article, or device having the appearance of a firearm.
  (2) "Motor vehicle" means any vehicle which is self-propelled.
  (3) "Weapon" means an object, device, or instrument which when used against a person is likely to or actually does result in serious bodily injury or death or any replica, article, or device having the appearance of such a weapon including, but not limited to, any object defined as a hazardous object by Code Section 20-2-751 or as a dangerous weapon by Code Section 16-11-121.
(b)
  (1) A person commits the offense of hijacking a motor vehicle in the first degree when such person while in possession of a firearm or weapon obtains a motor vehicle from an individual or the presence of another individual by force and violence or intimidation or attempts or conspires to do so.
  (2) A person commits the offense of hijacking a motor vehicle in the second degree when such person obtains a motor vehicle from an individual without his or her consent or from the immediate presence of another individual without his or her consent or attempts or conspires to do so.
(c)
  (1) A person convicted of the offense of hijacking a motor vehicle in the first degree shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than ten nor more than 20 years and a fine of not less than $10,000.00 nor more than $100,000.00, provided that any person who has previously committed an offense under the laws of the United States or of Georgia or of any of the several states or of any foreign nation recognized by the United States which if committed in Georgia would have constituted the offense of hijacking a motor vehicle shall be punished by imprisonment for life and a fine of not less than $100,000.00 nor more than $500,000.00. The punishment imposed pursuant to this paragraph shall not be deferred, suspended, or probated. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "state" shall include the District of Columbia and any territory, possession, or dominion of the United States.
  (2) A person convicted of the offense of hijacking a motor vehicle in the second degree shall be punished upon a first conviction by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years and a fine of not more than $5,000.00. Upon a second conviction for hijacking a motor vehicle in the second degree, a person shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than three nor more than 15 years and a fine of not more than $5,000.00. Upon a third or subsequent conviction of hijacking a motor vehicle in the second degree, a person shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than five nor more than 20 years and a fine of not more than $5,000.00.
(d) The offense of hijacking a motor vehicle in the first degree shall be considered a separate offense and shall not merge with any other offense.
(e)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the terms "proceeds" and "property" shall have the same meanings as set forth in Code Section 9-16-2.
  (2) Any property which is, directly or indirectly, used or intended for use in any manner to facilitate a violation of this Code section and any proceeds are declared to be contraband and no person shall have a property right in them.
  (3) Any property subject to forfeiture pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be forfeited in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 182,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 575,§ 2-4, eff. 7/1/2014.
