# § 16-5-20. Simple assault

(a) A person commits the offense of simple assault when he or she either:
  (1) Attempts to commit a violent injury to the person of another; or
  (2) Commits an act which places another in reasonable apprehension of immediately receiving a violent injury.
(b) Except as provided in subsections (c) through (i) of this Code section, a person who commits the offense of simple assault shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c) Any person who commits the offense of simple assault in a public transit vehicle or station shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature. For purposes of this Code section, "public transit vehicle" means a bus, van, or rail car used for the transportation of passengers within a system which receives a subsidy from tax revenues or is operated under a franchise contract with a county or municipality of this state.
(d) If the offense of simple assault is committed between past or present spouses, persons who are parents of the same child, parents and children, stepparents and stepchildren, foster parents and foster children, or other persons excluding siblings living or formerly living in the same household, the defendant shall be punished for a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature. In no event shall this subsection be applicable to corporal punishment administered by a parent or guardian to a child or administered by a person acting in loco parentis.
(e) Reserved.
(f) Any person who commits the offense of simple assault against an employee of a public school system of this state while such employee is engaged in official duties or on school property shall, upon conviction of such offense, be punished for a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature. For purposes of this Code section, "school property" shall include public school buses and stops for public school buses as designated by local school boards of education.
(g) Any person who commits the offense of simple assault against a female who is pregnant at the time of the offense shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature.
(h) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to permit the prosecution of:
  (1) Any person for conduct relating to an abortion for which the consent of the pregnant woman, or person authorized by law to act on her behalf, has been obtained or for which such consent is implied by law;
  (2) Any person for any medical treatment of the pregnant woman or her unborn child; or
  (3) Any woman with respect to her unborn child. For the purposes of this subsection, the term "unborn child" means a member of the species homo sapiens at any stage of development who is carried in the womb.
(i) Any person who commits the offense of simple assault upon a utility worker while such worker is acting within the course and scope of their employment or is performing official duties at the time of the offense shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished for a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 566,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2024, app. all offenses committed on or after 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 190,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 654,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 16, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 560, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
