# § 12-6-23. Scale load ticket required for wood removal; form; exceptions

(a) Any person, company, corporation, or others purchasing timber from lands in Georgia shall, within 20 days of removal of such timber, furnish the seller of timber a scale ticket for each and every load of wood removed, when such load is sold by weight, cord, or measure of board feet. A scale ticket shall include information clearly understandable to the seller as follows:
  (1) Ticket number;
  (2) Name and location of the person or company and its facility where the load of wood is received and weighed or measured;
  (3) Date wood was received at such facility;
  (4) Tract name;
  (5) County and state of origin;
  (6) Dealer name (if any);
  (7) Producer or logging company name;
  (8) Species of wood;
  (9) Weight or scale information. If the load is measured by weight, the gross, tare, and net weights shall be shown. If the load is measured by scale, the total volume shall be shown;
  (10) Weight, scale, or amount of wood deducted and the deduction classification (cull, undersize, metal, knots, etc.); and
  (11) Name of the person receiving, weighing, or scaling the wood.
(b) Subsection (a) of this Code section shall not apply to the following:
  (1) The sale of wood for firewood only;
  (2) Any landowner harvesting and processing his own timber; and
  (3) Bulk or lump sum sales wherein the landowner and the purchaser agree on a total price for all of said timber purchased.
(c) Any person, company, or corporation which violates any provision of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 619,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 917, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
