# § 12-6-5.1. Legislative findings; reforestation incentives program authorized; powers of commission

(a) The General Assembly finds that 433,000 acres of trees were planted in Georgia in 1984, while 640,000 acres were harvested during that year for a net loss of over 200,000 planted acres. The General Assembly further finds that the forest industry is of fundamental importance to the economy of the State of Georgia and that increased reforestation is necessary to meet future demands for forest products and to promote economic development and additional employment opportunities within this state. The General Assembly further finds that many acres of farm land and other open land in Georgia are not currently being used to the best advantage and that a program to provide incentives to encourage reforestation on these lands would be of great benefit to the people of Georgia. The General Assembly further finds that increased reforestation would substantially reduce soil erosion, which continues to be a serious problem in Georgia, and would be of other value in preserving and protecting wildlife and other natural resources of this state. It is determined, therefore, that it is in the interest of the public health, safety, and welfare and would serve an important public purpose for the State Forestry Commission to establish a reforestation incentives program for the State of Georgia.
(b) In accordance with the findings set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section, the State Forestry Commission is authorized to establish a reforestation incentives program to encourage the planting of trees on lands within this state which are suitable for that purpose but which are currently not being utilized or are not being properly utilized for that purpose. In establishing and maintaining the reforestation incentives program, the commission may:
  (1) Provide technical advice and assistance on reforestation to landowners and encourage such landowners to participate in the reforestation incentives program;
  (2) Provide seedlings or equipment to landowners for reforestation purposes pursuant to such terms, conditions, and requirements as the commission shall determine;
  (3) Define the types of land eligible for participation in the reforestation incentives program and establish limitations on such participation;
  (4) Define the class or classes of landowners who shall be eligible for participation in the reforestation incentives program; and
  (5) Provide for any other matters reasonably necessary for the commission to establish and maintain an effective reforestation incentives program.
(c) The powers of the commission provided by this Code section are cumulative of other powers possessed by the commission pursuant to any other provisions of this part or pursuant to any other law and are not in lieu of such other powers.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 12, eff. 4/14/2006.
