# § 12-6-42. State Board of Registration for Foresters - Creation; appointment of members; certificate of appointment; oath; term of office

(a) A State Board of Registration for Foresters is created whose duty it shall be to administer this part.
(b) The board shall consist of five foresters who shall be selected and appointed by the Governor and who shall have the qualifications required by Code Section 12-6-43.
(c) In addition to the five members provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section, the board shall consist of a sixth member who shall be appointed by the Governor from the public at large and who shall have no connection whatsoever with the practice of professional forestry. The initial term of appointment for the additional member provided for by this subsection shall expire June 30, 1985; thereafter, the Governor shall appoint successors for terms of five years each.
(d) Every member of the board shall receive a certificate of his appointment from the Governor and before beginning his term of office shall file with the Secretary of State his written oath or affirmation for the faithful discharge of his official duty.
(e) The five members of the board shall be appointed for terms of five years. On the expiration of the term of any member of the board, the Governor shall in the manner provided in this Code section appoint for a term of five years a registered forester having the qualifications required by Code Section 12-6-43 to take the place of the member whose term on the board is expiring. Each member shall hold office until the expiration of the term for which that member is appointed or until a successor shall have been duly appointed and shall have qualified.
