# § 12-6-252. Certificates of harvest

(a) As a condition of selling saw palmetto berries to a saw palmetto berry dealer within this state, the seller shall obtain and present to the saw palmetto berry dealer a certificate of harvest. A certificate of harvest shall be a written or printed document signed by the landowner from which the saw palmetto berries were harvested granting permission for the harvest of the saw palmetto berries and shall include a harvest start date and end date, which harvest period shall not exceed one year. A certificate of harvest shall be valid for one year. In addition to the permission of the landowner to harvest saw palmetto berries, a certificate of harvest shall include:
  (1) The name, address, and telephone number of the landowner that granted permission to harvest the saw palmetto berries;
  (2) The name, address, and telephone number of the person authorized to harvest the saw palmetto berries; and
  (3) The start date, end date, and location, including county, of the harvest.
(b) A saw palmetto berry dealer that purchases saw palmetto berries directly from a landowner or a person harvesting saw palmetto berries from another's property shall obtain a landowner's certificate of harvest. A landowner's certificate of harvest shall include:
  (1) The name, address, and telephone number of the landowner;
  (2) The start date, end date, and location, including county, of the harvest; and
  (3) The landowner's signature.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 571,§ 1, eff. 8/5/2020.
