# § 12-6-228. Reporting of results; basic unit of participation in registry; filing of reports

(a)
  (1) Participants shall initially report their certified carbon sequestration results for the most recent year for which they have complete data as specified in this article. This shall include sequestration of carbon dioxide from standing trees. After establishing baseline results, participants shall report their certified carbon sequestration results in each subsequent year in order to show changes with respect to their baseline year. Participants may report carbon sequestration results without establishing a baseline for such results or for emissions. Certified carbon sequestration results reported to the registry by a participant shall be credited in carbon mass units to an account established for the participant in the registry.
  (2) For the reporting of embodied carbon results arising from construction of buildings in this state, upon completion of the project, developers shall seek the review of a certified third-party organization that will verify the building embodied carbon from a baseline of standard buildings established by the advisory committee. The commission shall publish and maintain a list of approved certified third-party organizations. Only projects that have been completed after January 1, 2019, shall be considered. After such projects have been verified and validated by a certified third-party organization, the director shall be authorized to determine, charge, and retain an administrative fee from developers for awarding carbon credits to provide for the cost of administering the provisions of this article.
(b)
  (1) Registry credits for certified carbon sequestration results may be sold, purchased, or otherwise transferred in whole or in part without any regard to or effect on or being affected by ownership of other personal property or any real property, and such credits may be retained in whole or in part without any regard to or effect on or being affected by any sale, purchase, or other transfer of other personal property or any real property.
  (2) In addition to annual reports submitted pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, participants shall report to the registry any sales, purchases, or other transfers of registry credits for certified carbon sequestration results, in whole or in part, within ten days after the completion of such transaction, and participants' registry accounts shall be updated to reflect such transfers.
(c) The basic unit of participation in the registry shall be a natural person or a legal entity in its entirety such as a corporation or other legally constituted body, a city or county, or a state government agency.
(d) Reports to the registry by participants may be filed in the office of the clerk of the superior court in any county of this state.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 257,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 471, § 1, eff. upon the effective date of a specific appropriation of funds as expressed in a line item of an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly.
