# § 12-6-86. Unit forestry boards - Creation; appointment; qualifications; terms of office; vacancies; service by members without compensation

(a) In the discretion of the State Forestry Commission, there may be set up in each fire protection unit a board to be known as the unit forestry board, consisting of five members who shall be appointed by the State Forestry Commission.
(b) The State Forestry Commission shall determine the number of members from each county within the fire protection unit to be appointed to the board in accordance with the percentage of forest land acreage for each county within the unit.
(c) The members of the board shall be residents of the county from which they are appointed and shall be owners of forest land or representatives of such owners. Change of residence from the county shall terminate the appointment.
(d) The initial term of the members of all of the unit forestry boards shall be one member for one year, one member for two years, one member for three years, one member for four years, and one member for five years, each member holding office until his successor is appointed. After the expiration of the first term, one member shall be appointed annually for a term of five years.
(e) In case of a vacancy on the unit forestry board by reason of death, resignation, or otherwise, such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as provided for the appointment of members thereof.
(f) The members of the unit forestry boards shall serve without compensation.
