# § 12-6-49.1. Denial or suspension of license for noncompliance with child support order

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Agency" means the agency within the Department of Human Services which is responsible for enforcing orders for child support pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter 11 of Title 19, the "Child Support Recovery Act."
  (2) "Compliance with an order for child support" means, as set forth in a court order, administrative order, or contempt order for child support, the obligor is not more than 60 calendar days in arrears in making payments in full for current support, periodic payments on a support arrearage, or periodic payments on a reimbursement for public assistance.
  (3) "Proof of compliance" means the notice of release issued by the agency or a court of competent jurisdiction stating that the delinquent obligor is in compliance with an order for child support.
(b) The board shall suspend, as provided for in Code Sections 19-6-28.1 and 19-11-9.3, the license of any registered forester upon receipt of a record from the agency or a court of competent jurisdiction stating that such licensee is not in compliance with an order for child support.
(c) The board shall deny the application or renewal, as provided for in Code Sections 19-6-28.1 and 19-11-9.3, of any applicant or licensee upon receipt of a record that such applicant or licensee is not in compliance with an order for child support from the agency or court of competent jurisdiction.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the hearings and appeals procedures provided for in Code Section 19-6-28.1 or 19-11-9.3, where applicable, shall be the only such procedures required to suspend a license or deny the issuance or renewal of an application for a license under this part.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
