# § 10-10-3. Administration of fund; equity contributions; disbursements

(a) The fund is created as a separate fund maintained by the board or a body designated by the board and shall be expended only as provided in this article. Pending their use as equity contributions or as loans, the moneys in the fund may be invested and reinvested in accordance with the investment policies authorized by the board or its designee. The entire cost of administration of the fund, including expenses of the center incurred in connection with the creation, operation, management, liquidation, and investment of fund moneys in enterprises, directly or through investment entities, may be paid from the assets of the fund. All moneys appropriated to or otherwise paid into the fund shall be presumptively concluded to have been committed to the purpose for which they have been appropriated or paid and shall not lapse.
(b) The fund shall consist of all moneys authorized by law for deposit in the fund, including, but not limited to, gifts, grants, private donations, and funds by government entities authorized to provide funding for the purposes authorized for use of the fund and any payments or returns on investments made by the center.
(c) In return for equity contributions by the fund, at the discretion of the center, the state shall receive either direct ownership of qualified securities of an enterprise or a limited liability ownership in an investment entity either directly or indirectly through an investment entity as to which the state is the sole limited liability owner as permitted in subsection (c) of Code Section 10-10-4 with rights accruing from investments in qualified securities by the investment entity. With respect to loans made from the fund, the state shall receive repayment of the loan in accordance with its terms, with cash proceeds or other assets from such repayments being deposited in or held through the fund. Additional returns to the state shall be secured through the establishment and growth of innovative enterprises that create new, value added products, processes, and services and encourage growth and diversification in the economy of the state.
(d) Disbursements from the fund shall be made upon the instruction of the center director in accordance with the policies of the board.
(e) The center, subject to the approval of the board or its designee, shall be authorized to contract and have contracts and other legal documents prepared to carry out the provisions of this article.
(f) The board shall have the authority to issue policies governing the management and operation of the fund as needed.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 86,§ 3, eff. 4/29/2013.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 867,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2006.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 503, § 1, eff. 5/13/2004.
