# § 10-10-1. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia.
(2) "Center" means the Advanced Technology Development Center created by the board and acknowledged and empowered to administer the fund by Article III, Section IX, Paragraph VI(g) of the Constitution of Georgia.
(3) "Enterprise" means a corporation, partnership, limited liability company, or other legal entity that has its principal place of business in this state and that is engaged in an entrepreneurial business, including, but not limited to, tenants of incubators. For the purposes of this article, an enterprise shall not be considered to be engaged in an entrepreneurial business unless it is engaged in innovative work in the areas of technology, bioscience, manufacturing, marketing, agriculture, or information related ventures that will increase the state's share of domestic or international markets. An enterprise engaged primarily in business of a mercantile nature shall not be considered engaged in an entrepreneurial business. An enterprise shall be required to be young, as determined by the center.
(4) "Equity contribution" means:
  (A) Moneys from the fund used to make direct investments by the state in qualified securities of enterprises; and
  (B) The capital of an investment entity contributed by the fund, as created in Code Section 10-10-3, and contributed by other investors, which capital shall be used by the investment entity to make investments in qualified securities of one or more enterprises as provided by this article and to pay the expenses of the investment entity but shall not include any current or accumulated income of the investment entity.
(5) "Fund" means the Seed-Capital Fund created in Code Section 10-10-3.
(6) "Incubator" means a facility that leases small units of space to tenants and which maintains or provides access to business development services for use by the tenants or member firms.
(7) "Investment entity" means a limited partnership, a limited liability company, or other legal entity, including, without limitation, any such entity as to which the state is the sole limited liability owner, providing limited liability to its owners that is formed to receive, in part, an investment by the fund or an equity return of investment from a fund loan and for which a general partner or manager manages the equity contributions by making investments in qualified securities of one or more enterprises or, in the case of an investment entity as to which the state is the sole limited liability owner, in another investment entity, as permitted by this article and by paying the expenses of the investment entity.
(8) "Loan" means an advance of money from the fund to an enterprise or an investment entity on such terms as the center shall set, including, but not limited to, an absolute promise to repay the principal amount of the loan made by the recipient enterprise, and any return on investment that the center may require as a term or condition of the loan, which may include, but not be limited to, simple or compound interest or any form of equity participation.
(9) "Qualified security" means any note, stock, treasury stock bond, debenture, evidence of indebtedness, certificate of interest or participation in any profit-sharing agreement, preorganization certificate or subscription, transferable share, investment contract, certificate of deposit for a security, certificate of interest or participation in a patent or application therefor or in royalty or other payments under such a patent or application, or, in general, any interest or instrument commonly known as a security or any certificate for, receipt for, guarantee of, or option, warrant, or right to subscribe to or purchase any of the foregoing of an enterprise.
(10) "State" means the State of Georgia.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 86,§ 2, eff. 4/29/2013.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 867,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2006.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 503, § 1, eff. 5/13/2004.
