# § 10-10-12. Invest Georgia Board; creation; membership; powers

(a) There is hereby created the Invest Georgia Board, which shall exercise the powers and perform the duties prescribed by this article. The exercise by the board of its powers and duties is hereby declared to be an essential state governmental function. The board shall be subject to all laws generally applicable to state agencies and public officials, to the extent those laws do not conflict with the provisions of this article.
(b) The board shall consist of three members appointed by the Governor, one member appointed by the Lieutenant Governor, and one member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Each appointed member shall be a resident of Georgia and shall have experience in at least one of the following areas:
  (1) Early stage, angel, or venture capital investing;
  (2) Growth stage venture capital investing;
  (3) Fund of funds management; or
  (4) Entrepreneurship. No member of the board shall be an affiliate of any venture capital fund that is selected to perform services for the board or of an insurance company.
(c) The commissioner of economic development and a member of the One Georgia Authority or their designees shall serve as nonvoting members of the board.
(d) Initial appointees to the board shall serve staggered terms, with all of the initial terms beginning within 30 days of April 29, 2013. The terms of one member appointed by the Governor and the members appointed by the Lieutenant Governor and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall expire on December 31, 2016. The terms of the other two initial appointments by the Governor shall expire on December 31, 2018. Thereafter, terms of office for all appointees shall be for four years, with each term ending on the same day of the same month as did the term that it succeeds. A vacancy on the board shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment, except that a person appointed to fill a vacancy shall be appointed to the remainder of the unexpired term. Any appointed member of the board shall be eligible for reappointment.
(e) A member of the board may be removed by such member's appointing official for misfeasance, willful neglect of duty, or other cause, after notice and a public hearing, unless the notice and hearing are waived in writing by such member.
(f) Members of the board shall serve without compensation. The Governor shall designate a member of the board to serve as chairperson. A majority of the voting members of the board shall constitute a quorum, and the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting members present shall be necessary for any action taken by the board. A vacancy in the membership of the board shall not impair the right of a quorum to exercise all rights and perform all duties of the board.
(g) The board shall have the power:
  (1) To have a seal and alter the same at its pleasure;
  (2) To acquire by purchase, lease, or otherwise, including acquisition of land from the state government, and to hold, lease, and dispose of real and personal property of every kind and character for its corporate purpose and to enter into any contracts, leases, or other charges for the use of property or services of the board and collect and use the same as necessary to operate the board; and to accomplish any of the purposes of this article and make any purchases or sales necessary for such purposes;
  (3) To acquire in its own name by purchase, on such terms and conditions and in such manner as it may deem proper, real property, or rights or easements therein, or franchises necessary or convenient for its corporate purpose, and to use the same so long as its corporate existence shall continue, and to lease or make contracts with respect to the use of such property, or dispose of the same in any manner it deems to be to the best advantage of the board;
  (4) To appoint, select, and employ officers, agents, and employees, including real estate, environmental, engineering, architectural, and construction experts, fiscal agents, and attorneys, and to fix their respective compensations;
  (5) To make contracts and leases and to execute all instruments necessary or convenient. Any and all persons, firms, and corporations and any and all political subdivisions, departments, institutions, authorities, or agencies of the state and federal government are authorized to enter into contracts, leases, or agreements with the board upon such terms and for such purposes as they deem advisable; and, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, authority is specifically granted to municipal corporations, counties, political subdivisions, and to the board relative to entering into contracts, lease agreements, or other undertakings authorized between the board and private corporations, both inside and outside this state, and between the board and public bodies, including counties and cities outside this state and the federal government;
  (6) To accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof upon such terms and conditions as the United States of America or such agency or instrumentality may require;
  (7) To accept loans and grants of money or materials or property of any kind from the State of Georgia or any authority, agency, or instrumentality or political subdivision thereof upon such terms and conditions as the State of Georgia or such authority, agency, or instrumentality or political subdivision may require;
  (8) To exercise any power usually possessed by private corporations performing similar functions, provided that no such power is in conflict with the Constitution or general laws of this state; and
  (9) To do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this article.
(h) The center shall provide the board with office space and such technical assistance as the board requires, and the board shall be attached to the center for administrative purposes. The center shall also consult with the board in connection with the administration of the Invest Georgia Fund created under this article.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 86,§ 5, eff. 4/29/2013.
