# § 33-34A-4. Representation as warrantor; filing of registration records; fees; renewal of registration

(a) A person may not operate as a warrantor or represent to the public that the person is a warrantor unless the person is registered with the department on a form prescribed by the Commissioner.
(b) Warrantor registration records shall be filed annually and shall be updated within 30 days of any change. The registration records shall contain the following information:
  (1) The warrantor's name, any fictitious names under which the warrantor does business in this state, principal office address, and telephone number;
  (2) The name and address of the warrantor's agent for service of process in this state if other than the warrantor;
  (3) The names of the warrantor's executive officer or officers directly responsible for the warrantor's vehicle protection product business;
  (4) The name, address, and telephone number of any administrators designated by the warrantor to be responsible for the administration of vehicle protection product warranties in this state;
  (5) A copy of the warranty reimbursement insurance policy or policies or other financial information required by Code Section 33-34-5; and
  (6) A copy of each warranty the warrantor proposes to use in this state.
(c) The Commissioner may charge each registrant a reasonable fee to offset the cost of processing the registration and maintaining the records in an amount not to exceed $750.00 annually. The information in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be made available to the public.
(d) If a registrant fails to register by the renewal deadline, the Commissioner shall give him or her written notice of the failure and the registrant will have 30 days to complete the renewal of his or her registration before he or she is suspended from being registered in this state.
(e) An administrator or person who sells or solicits a sale of a vehicle protection product but who is not a warrantor shall not be required to register as a warrantor or be licensed under the insurance laws of this state to sell vehicle protection products.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 290, § 1, eff. 1/1/2004.
