# § 33-34A-9. Prohibited words in product contract; false or misleading statements prohibited; requiring as condition for loan prohibited

(a) Unless licensed as an insurance company, a vehicle protection product warrantor shall not use in its name, contracts, or literature the words "insurance," "casualty," "surety," "mutual," or any other word that is descriptive of the insurance, casualty, or surety business or that is deceptively similar to the name or description of any insurance or surety corporation or any other vehicle protection product warrantor. A warrantor may use the term "guaranty" or a similar word in the warrantor's name.
(b) A vehicle protection product warrantor shall not make, permit, or cause any false or misleading statements, either oral or written, in connection with the sale, offer to sell, or advertisement of a vehicle protection product.
(c) A vehicle protection product warrantor shall not permit or cause the omission of any material statement in connection with the sale, offer to sell, or advertisement of a vehicle protection product, which under the circumstances should have been made in order to make the statements that were made not misleading.
(d) A vehicle protection product warrantor shall not make, permit, or cause any false or misleading statements, either oral or written, about the performance required or payments that may be available under the vehicle protection product warranty.
(e) A vehicle protection product warrantor shall not make, permit, or cause any statement or practice that has the effect of creating or maintaining a fraud.
(f) A bank, savings and loan association, insurance company, or other lending institution shall not require the purchase of a vehicle protection product as a condition of a loan.
(g) A vehicle protection product seller or warrantor may not require as a condition of sale or financing that a retail purchaser of a motor vehicle purchase a vehicle protection product that is not installed on the motor vehicle at the time of sale.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 290, § 1, eff. 1/1/2004.
