# § 43-45-9. Examination for certification as an operator; evidence from applicants as to employment of qualified operators; insurance requirements; required statements in contracts for service

(a) All applicants for examination for certification as an operator must have a knowledge of the practical and scientific facts underlying the practice of structural pest control, control of wood-destroying organisms, and fumigation and the necessary knowledge and ability to recognize and control those hazardous conditions which may affect human life and health. The commission may refuse to examine anyone convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
(b) Each applicant must present satisfactory evidence to the commission concerning his or her qualifications which must include at least one of the following:
  (1) Two years' actual experience relating to service, one year of which must have been, within the last five years, as an employee, employer, or owner-operator in the field of household pest control, control of wood-destroying organisms, or fumigation, for whichever license is applied for;
  (2) One or more years' specialized training in household pest control, control of wood-destroying organisms, or fumigation, or any combination thereof, under university or college supervision as a substitute for practical experience at the ratio of one year of schooling for one-fourth year practical experience; or
  (3) A degree from a recognized college or university with advanced training or major in entomology, sanitary or public health engineering, or related subjects, including sufficient practical experience of structural pest control work under proper supervision.
(c) Each applicant for a license shall present evidence satisfactory to the commission that the business entity desiring the license has in its employ one or more qualified operators to engage in the business of structural pest control as provided in this chapter.
(d) Each applicant for a license shall submit with the application and each licensee shall submit at the time of renewal of the license a certificate of insurance verifying coverage from either an insurance company authorized to do business in this state or a surplus lines broker licensed by the Commissioner of Insurance. Such coverage shall be in the amount of not less than $50,000.00 per occurrence, with a minimum annual aggregate of $200,000.00 for all occurrences, and shall insure the licensee's business against bodily injury and property damage claims. The insurance shall also cover claims for pollution liability caused by sudden and accidental discharge or release of pollutants.
(e) In addition to the insurance coverage specified in subsection (d) of this Code section, each licensee for control of wood-destroying organisms shall submit on July 1, 2002, or within 30 days thereafter, each applicant for a license for control of wood-destroying organisms shall submit with the application for a license, and each licensee for control of wood-destroying organisms shall submit at the time of renewal of the license a certificate of insurance verifying coverage during the term of the license from either an insurance company authorized to do business in this state or a surplus lines broker licensed by the Commissioner of Insurance. Such coverage shall be in the amount of not less than $100,000.00 per occurrence, with a minimum annual aggregate of $500,000.00 for all occurrences and shall insure the licensee's business against bodily injury and property damage claims arising from the licensee's treatment or services for control of wood-destroying organisms including errors and omission coverage on an occurrence basis.
(f) No license shall be issued or renewed and no business license shall be issued by a political subdivision pursuant to Code Section 43-45-15 until the insurance requirements of this Code section are met. The minimum insurance coverages required by this Code section must be maintained during the entire period of time a license is in force. Policies shall contain a cancellation provision whereby notification of cancellation is made by the insurer to and actually received by the commission, through the Structural Pest Control Section of the Department of Agriculture, not less than 30 days prior to the cancellation. Any license or renewal of a license shall be suspended automatically by operation of law if the insurance coverages are not in force or are canceled for any reason, unless equivalent insurance is then in effect. It shall be the duty of the licensee to notify the commission that equivalent insurance is in effect and furnish proof of such insurance to the commission. If the license or renewal license is not reinstated within three months, it shall be revoked by operation of law without a hearing.
(g) At the time of the issuance of any contract for treatment or service, a statement shall appear in the contract, in the same size type as other terms and conditions, stating the following: "The Georgia Structural Pest Control Act" requires all pest control companies to maintain insurance coverage. Information about this coverage is available from this pest control company.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 174, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 847, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
