# § 43-45-24.1. Civil penalty; negotiated settlements; hearings and procedure; disposition of penalties; judicial review; judgments

(a) Any licensee, operator, registered employee, or any other person violating this chapter, any rule or regulation of the commission or the Commissioner promulgated pursuant to this chapter, or any condition or limitation of any license or registration imposed pursuant to this chapter may be liable for a civil penalty of not more than $10,000.00 per violation. Such penalty may be imposed in addition to or in lieu of the suspension, cancellation, or revocation of a license, certification, or registration or any other enforcement action authorized by this chapter or any other provision of law. The consent of the entity or person against whom the penalty is to be imposed shall not be required for the imposition of such penalty.
(b) Whenever the Commissioner determines that any licensee, operator, registered employee, or any other person has violated this chapter, any rule or regulation of the commission or the Commissioner promulgated pursuant to this chapter, or any condition or limitation of any license or registration imposed pursuant to this chapter, the Commissioner may issue an administrative order imposing a civil penalty as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section for the violation without a hearing unless a person subject to the order petitions for a hearing. Any person who is aggrieved or adversely affected by such order shall, upon written petition within ten days after the service of the order on such person, have a right to a hearing before a hearing officer appointed by the Commissioner. Failure to petition for a hearing within such time period shall constitute a waiver of the right to a hearing. The order and notice shall be served in person by the Commissioner or the Commissioner's agent or by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested. In the case of a licensee, operator, or registered employee, receipt of the order and notice will be conclusively presumed five days after the mailing of the order by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, to the address provided by such person in such person's most recent application. The order shall contain or be accompanied by a notice of opportunity for a hearing which states that a hearing must be petitioned for in writing within ten days of the service of the order. If a hearing is petitioned for within such ten-day period, the administrative order is stayed pending a final decision by the hearing officer. Upon receipt of a written petition for a hearing, the Commissioner shall schedule the hearing before a hearing officer appointed by the Commissioner, unless postponed by mutual consent, within 30 days of the receipt by the Commissioner of the petition. The Commissioner shall give the person petitioning for the hearing notice of the time and place of the hearing by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the address specified in the petition for a hearing at least 15 days prior to the date of the hearing. The hearing before the hearing officer shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and the rules and regulations adopted by the commission or the Commissioner pursuant thereto. Any party to the hearing, including the Commissioner, shall have the right of judicial review thereof in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50.
(c) All civil penalties recovered by the Commissioner as provided in this Code section shall be paid into the state treasury.
(d) Informal disposition or settlement may be made of any contested case or action by stipulation, agreed settlement, consent order, or default.
(e) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section or by any other provision of this chapter, all proceedings under this Code section shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and the rules and regulations adopted by the commission and the Commissioner pursuant thereto.
(f) Any order of the hearing officer issued after a hearing as provided in this Code section or any order of the Commissioner issued pursuant to this Code section, either unappealed from as provided in this Code section or affirmed or modified on any review or appeal pursuant to this Code section, and from which no further review is taken or allowed under this Code section, may be filed, as unappealed from or as affirmed or modified, if reviewed or appealed, by certified copy from the Commissioner in the superior court of the county wherein such person under order resides, or if such person is a corporation in the county wherein the corporation maintains its principal place of business, or in the county wherein the violation occurred or in which jurisdiction is appropriate, whereupon such superior court shall render judgment in accordance therewith and notify the parties. Such judgment shall have the same effect, and all proceedings in relation thereto shall thereafter be the same, as though such judgment had been rendered in an action duly heard and determined by such court.
