# § 43-26-32. Definitions

(1) "Active practice as a licensed practical nurse" means to practice practical nursing as a licensed practical nurse by performing for compensation acts authorized by the board.
(1.1) "Approved nursing education program" located in this state means a nursing education program approved by the board as meeting criteria established by the board. An "approved nursing education program" located outside this state means a nursing education program that the board has determined to meet criteria similar to and not less stringent than criteria established by the board for nursing education programs located in this state. In order to be approved by the board, a nursing education program must be one that is offered by:
  (A) A unit of the University System of Georgia accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools;
  (B) An institution of the Technical College System of Georgia;
  (C) A postsecondary institution of higher education that is accredited by a regional accrediting agency recognized by the United States Department of Education; or
  (D) A postsecondary institution of higher education that is not accredited in accordance with subparagraph (C) of this paragraph, but whose curriculum has been determined by the board to meet criteria similar to and not less stringent than criteria established by the board for other approved nursing education programs.
(2) "Board" means the Georgia Board of Nursing created in Code Section 43-26-4.
(3) Reserved.
(4) "License" means a current document, issued by the board, permitting a person to practice practical nursing as a licensed practical nurse. This term shall also include a multistate license issued by another state in accordance with Article 4 of this chapter permitting a person to practice practical nursing as a licensed practical nurse in this state under a multistate licensure privilege.
(5) "Licensed practical nurse" means a person who has completed a board approved nursing program necessary to qualify for examination for licensure and who is authorized by a license issued under this article to practice practical nursing.
(6) "Licensure" means the bestowing of a current license by the board permitting a person to practice practical nursing as a licensed practical nurse.
(7) "The practice of licensed practical nursing" means the provision of care for compensation, under the supervision of a physician practicing medicine, a dentist practicing dentistry, a podiatrist practicing podiatry, or a registered nurse practicing nursing in accordance with applicable provisions of law. Such care shall relate to the maintenance of health and prevention of illness through acts authorized by the board, which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
  (A) Participating in the assessment, planning, implementation, and evaluation of the delivery of health care services and other specialized tasks when appropriately trained and consistent with board rules and regulations;
  (B) Providing direct personal patient observation, care, and assistance in hospitals, clinics, nursing homes, or emergency treatment facilities, or other health care facilities in areas of practice including, but not limited to: coronary care, intensive care, emergency treatment, surgical care and recovery, obstetrics, pediatrics, outpatient services, home health care, or other such areas of practice;
  (C) Performing comfort and safety measures;
  (D) Administering treatments and medication; and
  (E) Participating in the management and supervision of unlicensed personnel in the delivery of patient care.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 48,§ 3, eff. 5/12/2019.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 200,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 276,§ 2, eff. 2/16/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 60,§ 4, eff. 4/29/2009.
