# § 43-26-6. Use of certain titles and abbreviations by licensed nurses

(a) Any person who is licensed as a registered professional nurse shall have the right to use the title "registered professional nurse" and the abbreviation "R.N." Any person recognized by the board as an advanced practice registered nurse shall have the right to use the title "advanced practice registered nurse" and the abbreviation "A.P.R.N." No other person shall assume such titles or use such abbreviations or any other words, letters, signs, or symbols to indicate that such person is a registered professional nurse or an advanced practice registered nurse in Georgia. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to repeal the right of any person who is licensed as a registered professional nurse or recognized by the board as an advanced practice registered nurse on June 30, 2006, to be licensed and to use the title "registered professional nurse" or to use the title "advanced practice registered nurse," respectively.
(b) Any person holding a license to practice nursing as a licensed undergraduate nurse, which license was issued by the board and valid on July 1, 1975, shall be deemed to be licensed to practice nursing as a licensed undergraduate nurse under this article and shall have the right to use the title "licensed undergraduate nurse" and the abbreviation "L.U.N." No other person shall assume such title or use such abbreviation or any other words, letters, signs, or symbols to indicate that such person is licensed to practice nursing as a licensed undergraduate nurse. After July 1, 1975, there shall be no new certificates issued for licensure to practice nursing as a licensed undergraduate nurse.
(c) Any person who is licensed as a registered professional nurse shall identify that he or she is so licensed by displaying either the title "registered professional nurse" or "registered nurse," the abbreviation "R.N.," the title "advanced practice registered nurse," or the abbreviation "A.P.R.N." on a name tag or other similar form of identification during times when such person is providing direct patient care. An advanced practice registered nurse shall meet the identification requirements of this subsection by displaying the title or abbreviation of his or her area of specialization.
(d) No person shall use the title "nurse" or any other title or abbreviation that would represent to the public that a person is authorized to practice nursing unless the person is licensed or otherwise authorized under this article or Article 2 of this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 247,§ 1A, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 527,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 243,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 463,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2006.
