# § 43-26-39. Renewal of license; continuing competency requirements; voluntary surrender; application for reinstatement; temporary permit

(a) Licenses issued under this article shall be renewed biennially prior to the expiration of the license according to schedules and fees decided by the board and approved by the division director.
(b) A license shall be renewed for any licensed practical nurse who remits the required fee and complies with the requirements established by the board.
(b.1) Beginning with the 2017 license renewal cycle, an applicant for license renewal under this article shall meet one of the following continuing competency requirements during the previous licensure period:
  (1) Completion of 20 continuing education hours by a board approved provider; or
  (2) Completion of an accredited academic program of study in registered professional nursing, as recognized by the board. Failure to meet the minimum continuing competency requirement for renewal of a license shall be grounds for denial of a renewal application. The board may waive or modify the requirements contained in this subsection in cases of hardship, disability, or illness or under such other circumstances as the board, in its discretion, deems appropriate. An applicant who is renewing a license for the first time shall not be required to meet the requirements of this subsection until the time of the second renewal if the applicant's initial license period is six months or less.
(c) The voluntary surrender of a license or the failure to renew a license by the end of an established renewal period shall have the same effect as revocation of said license, subject to reinstatement at the discretion of the board. The board may restore and reissue a license and, as a condition thereof, may impose any disciplinary sanction provided by Code Section 43-1-19 upon such grounds as specified in Code Sections 43-1-19 and 43-26-40.
(d) Any license that is not renewed by the end of the renewal period may not thereafter be renewed, and the licensee must apply for reinstatement. Applicants for reinstatement shall meet continuing competency requirements as established by the board.
(e) The board may issue a temporary permit to qualified applicants under such terms and conditions as specified in the rules and regulations of the board, but in no event shall such a temporary permit be issued to an applicant who has failed to pass the required examination.
(f) Other criteria for reinstatement may be determined by the rules of the board, including, but not limited to, additional coursework, a refresher course, supervised clinical practice, or examination by the board.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 160,§ 7, eff. 5/6/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 266,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2013.
