# § 43-26-7.1. Requirements for licensure as advanced practice registered nurse

(a) On and after September 1, 2025, any applicant who meets the requirements of this Code section shall be eligible for licensure as an advanced practice registered nurse.
(b)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, an applicant for initial licensure to practice as an advanced practice registered nurse shall:
    (A) Submit a completed written application and fee;
    (B) Be currently licensed by the board as a registered professional nurse or hold a multistate license under Article 4 of this chapter;
    (C) Have completed an accredited graduate or postgraduate level advanced practice registered nursing program in one of the four roles specified under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1.1) of Code Section 43-26-3 and in at least one population focus;
    (D) Be currently certified by a national certifying body recognized by the board in an advanced practice registered nursing program in a role and population focus appropriate for educational preparation;
    (E) Have satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for licensure under this subsection shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such criminal background check; and
    (F) Meet such other criteria as established by the board.
  (2) A person who is authorized by the board to practice as an advanced practice registered nurse as of September 1, 2025, shall by operation of law be automatically licensed to practice as an advanced practice registered nurse on such date.
(c) An applicant for reinstatement of licensure who has previously held a valid advanced practice registered nurse license in Georgia or authorization to practice as an advanced practice registered nurse in Georgia prior to September 1, 2025, shall:
  (1) Submit a completed written application and fee;
  (2) Meet continuing competency requirements as established by the board;
  (3) Have satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for reinstatement of licensure under this subsection shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for reinstatement of licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such criminal background check; and
  (4) Meet such other criteria as established by the board.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 486,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2024.
