# § 43-26-38. License by endorsement; temporary permit

(a) The board, at its discretion, may issue a license to practice as a licensed practical nurse, without examination, to any person who has a high school diploma or state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma and has been duly licensed or registered as a practical or vocational nurse or who is entitled to perform similar service under a different designation under the laws of another state or territory of the United States if the license or registration in that other state or territory is current and in good standing and was issued based upon completion of an approved nursing education program, as defined in Code Section 43-26-32, and passage of an examination, which examination has been determined by the board to be substantially equal to or greater than the requirements for licensure as a licensed practical nurse in this state, and if such person has met continuing competency requirements as established by the board.
(b) The board, at its discretion, may issue a license to practice as a licensed practical nurse, with examination, to any person who has a high school diploma or state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma and has been duly licensed or registered as a practical or vocational nurse or who is entitled to perform similar service under a different designation under the laws of another state or territory of the United States if the license or registration in that other state or territory is current and in good standing and was issued based upon completion of an approved nursing education program, as defined in Code Section 43-26-32, except however, such applicant has not been duly examined according to the prescribed examination approved by this board and if such person meets continuing competency requirements as established by the board.
(c) Applicants for endorsement who have not been engaged in the active practice of practical nursing as licensed practical nurses for a period which exceeds a period of time established by the board shall be required to complete additional education and training as provided in the rules and regulations of the board, which may include but not be limited to returning to school for full training and taking the licensing examination.
(d) The approval or denial of a license by endorsement under this Code section shall be in the sole discretion of the board, and a denial thereof shall not be considered to be a contested case within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." The applicant shall be allowed to appear before the board if the applicant so desires.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prevent an applicant who is denied a license by endorsement from taking the examination for licensure, provided that such applicant is otherwise eligible to take the examination and meets the requirements specified.
(f) The board may issue a temporary permit to qualified applicants under such terms and conditions as specified in the rules and regulations of the board, but in no event shall such a temporary permit be issued to an applicant who has failed to pass the required examination.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 726,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 160,§ 6, eff. 5/6/2015.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 60,§ 6, eff. 4/29/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 43, eff. 4/18/2002.
