# § 43-26-7. Requirements for licensure as registered professional nurse; requirements for nontraditional nursing education program

(a) Any applicant who meets the requirements of this Code section shall be eligible for licensure as a registered professional nurse.
(b) An applicant for licensure by examination shall:
  (1) Submit a completed written application and fee;
  (2)
    (A) Have graduated from an approved nursing education program, as defined in Code Section 43-26-3;
    (B)
      (i) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, have graduated from a nontraditional nursing education program approved by the board which meets the requirements in subsection (e) of this Code section; and
      (ii)
        (I) If the applicant entered the nontraditional nursing education program as a licensed practical nurse and had an academic education as a licensed practical nurse that included clinical training in pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, medical-surgical, and mental illness, have at least two years of clinical experience in the five years preceding the date of the application in an acute care inpatient facility or a long-term acute care facility as a licensed practical nurse, as approved by the board. Such clinical experience shall be documented in writing by the applicant's immediate supervisor stating that, in his or her opinion, the applicant has exhibited the critical thinking abilities, clinical skills, and leadership abilities that would indicate the ability to work as a beginning registered professional nurse;
        (II) If the applicant entered the nontraditional nursing education program as a licensed practical nurse, had an academic education as a licensed practical nurse that included clinical training in pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, medical-surgical, and mental illness, and has at least two years of experience as a licensed practical nurse in any setting, although such experience shall be exclusive of night duty in a skilled nursing facility, but less than two years of experience in the five years preceding the date of the application in an acute care inpatient facility or a long-term acute care facility, as approved by the board, have completed a 320 hour postgraduate preceptorship. If the applicant can show that he or she cannot find a preceptorship in an acute care inpatient facility or a long-term acute care facility, the board may authorize a preceptorship pursuant to this subdivision in a skilled nursing facility, if such facility has 100 beds or more and such facility ensures to the board that the applicant will be providing health care to patients with similar health care needs as those patients in a long-term acute care facility;
        (III) If the applicant entered the nontraditional nursing education program as (1) a paramedic with at least two years of experience as a paramedic or (2) a licensed practical nurse with less than two years of clinical experience in the five years preceding the date of the application in an acute care inpatient facility or a long-term acute care facility as a licensed practical nurse whose academic training as a licensed practical nurse did not include clinical training in pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, medical-surgical, and mental illness, have completed a 480 hour postgraduate preceptorship. Such preceptorship shall be in the area or areas as determined by the board on a case-by-case basis, which may include pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, medical-surgical, mental illness, and transition into the role of a registered professional nurse;
        (IV) If the applicant entered the nontraditional nursing education program as a military medical corpsman and has at least two years of experience as a military medical corpsman, have completed a postgraduate preceptorship of at least 480 hours but not more than 640 hours, as determined by the board; or
        (V) If the applicant does not meet the requirements of subdivision (I), (II), (III), or (IV) of this division and the applicant entered a nontraditional nursing education program before July 1, 2008, which meets the requirements of subsection (e) of this Code section and completes such program no later than June 30, 2015, have completed a 640 hour postgraduate preceptorship arranged by the applicant under the supervision of a registered professional nurse. The preceptorship shall have prior approval of the board, and successful completion of the preceptorship shall be verified in writing by the preceptor. The preceptorship shall be in an acute care inpatient facility or a long-term acute care facility; provided, however, that the board may authorize a preceptorship pursuant to this subdivision in other facilities to obtain specialized experience in certain areas. All preceptorships required pursuant to this division shall be arranged by the applicant under the close supervision of a registered professional nurse where such applicant is transitioned into the role of a registered professional nurse and the applicant performs duties typically performed by registered professional nurses. Except as otherwise provided in subdivision (II) of this division, a preceptorship shall be in an acute care inpatient facility or a long-term acute care facility; provided, however, that the board may authorize a preceptorship in other facilities to obtain specialized experience in certain areas. The preceptorship shall have prior approval of the board, and successful completion of the preceptorship shall be documented in writing by the preceptor stating that, in his or her opinion, the applicant has exhibited the critical thinking abilities, clinical skills, and leadership abilities necessary to practice as a beginning registered professional nurse. No later than August 1, 2011, the board shall develop and make available one or more standard forms for use by and assistance to applicants in securing and completing preceptorships. Such form or forms shall include information relating to the specific requirements for preceptorships, including the minimum qualifications of the preceptor, the type of training required, and the documentation required upon completion of the preceptorship. The board shall make the determinations required by this division in accordance with its established guidelines; or
    (C) Have graduated from a nursing education program located outside of the United States that is determined by the board to be equivalent to and not less stringent than an approved nursing education program as defined in Code Section 43-26-3;
  (3) Pass a board recognized licensing examination; provided, however, that such examination may not be taken prior to graduation from the approved nursing education program. In no way shall the passage of such examination by a graduate of a nontraditional nursing education program who does not meet the other requirements of this subsection be construed to authorize such individual to practice nursing, to require the board to license such individual as a registered professional nurse other than to issue in its sole discretion a temporary permit pursuant to Code Section 43-26-8, or to be endorsed from another state as a registered professional nurse;
  (4) Have satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for a license under this Code section shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board or its representative to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure by examination agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check;
  (5) Complete further education and training if the applicant has not passed the examination within a time period established by the board, which shall not exceed three years. Such education and training may include the successful completion of an approved nursing education program as defined in Code Section 43-26-3; and
  (6) Meet such other criteria as established by the board.
(c) An applicant for licensure by endorsement shall:
  (1) Submit a completed written application and fee;
  (2)
    (A) Have passed a board recognized licensing examination following graduation from an approved nursing education program, as defined in Code Section 43-26-3; or
    (B) Notwithstanding subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, have graduated from a nontraditional nursing education program approved by the board which meets the requirements in subsection (e) of this Code section;
  (3) Submit verification of initial and current licensure in any other licensing jurisdiction administering a board recognized licensing examination;
  (4)
    (A) Meet continuing competency requirements as established by the board;
    (B) If the applicant entered a nontraditional nursing education program as a licensed practical nurse whose academic education as a licensed practical nurse included clinical training in pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, medical-surgical, and mental illness, have practiced nursing as a registered professional nurse in a health care facility for at least one year in the three years preceding the date of the application, and such practice is documented by the applicant and approved by the board; provided, however, that for an applicant who does not meet the experience requirement of this subparagraph, the board shall require the applicant to complete a 320 hour postgraduate preceptorship arranged by the applicant under the oversight of a registered nurse where such applicant is transitioned into the role of a registered professional nurse. The preceptorship shall have prior approval of the board, and successful completion of the preceptorship shall be verified in writing by the preceptor; or
    (C) If the applicant entered a nontraditional nursing education program as anything other than a licensed practical nurse whose academic education as a licensed practical nurse included clinical training in pediatrics, obstetrics and gynecology, medical-surgical, and mental illness, have graduated from such program and practiced nursing as a registered professional nurse in a health care facility for at least two years in the five years preceding the date of the application, and such practice is documented by the applicant and approved by the board; provided, however, that for an applicant who does not meet the experience requirement of this subparagraph, the board shall require the applicant to complete a postgraduate preceptorship of at least 480 hours but not more than 640 hours, as determined by the board, arranged by the applicant under the oversight of a registered professional nurse where such applicant is transitioned into the role of a registered professional nurse. The preceptorship shall have prior approval of the board, and successful completion of the preceptorship shall be verified in writing by the preceptor. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "health care facility" means an acute care inpatient facility, a long-term acute care facility, an ambulatory surgical center or obstetrical facility as defined in Code Section 31-6-2, and a skilled nursing facility, so long as such skilled nursing facility has 100 beds or more and provides health care to patients with similar health care needs as those patients in a long-term acute care facility;
  (5) Have satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for a license under this Code section shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board or its representative to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure by endorsement agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check; and
  (6) Meet such other criteria as established by the board.
(d) An applicant for reinstatement who has previously held a valid license in Georgia shall:
  (1) Submit a completed written application and fee;
  (2) Meet continuing competency requirements as established by the board;
  (3) Have satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for a license under this Code section shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board or its representative to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure by examination agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check; and
  (4) Meet such other criteria as established by the board.
(e) A nontraditional nursing education program shall meet the following requirements:
  (1) Is part of an institution of higher education that is approved by the appropriate regulatory authorities of its home state;
  (2) Holds regional and specialty accreditation by an accrediting body or bodies recognized by the United States Secretary of Education or the Council for Higher Education Accreditation;
  (3) Requires its students to pass faculty determined program outcomes, including competency based assessments of nursing knowledge and a summative performance assessment of clinical competency of a minimum of 2 1/2 days developed by faculty subject matter experts that follows nationally recognized standards for educational testing; and
  (4) Its graduates pass a board recognized licensing examination at a rate equivalent to the minimum rate required for board approved traditional nursing education programs.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 43, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 160,§ 2, eff. 5/6/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 247,§ 1C, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 43, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 60,§ 2, eff. 4/29/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 527,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
