# § 43-26-4. Georgia Board of Nursing; membership; meetings; officers

(a) The Georgia Board of Nursing existing immediately prior to July 1, 2014, is continued in existence and shall be constituted as provided in this Code section. Those persons serving as members of the board immediately prior to July 1, 2014, shall continue to serve out their respective terms of office and until their successors are appointed. Members shall serve three-year terms and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. No member shall be appointed to more than two consecutive full terms, and for purposes of this limitation, an appointment to fill a vacancy for an unexpired term of two or more years shall constitute an appointment for a full term.
(b) A vacancy on the board for any reason other than expiration of the term shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by appointment of the Governor with the confirmation of the Senate. In the event a board member changes employment which causes a conflict with this Code section, the position of the member making such change shall be immediately vacant and a new member appointed to fill the vacancy.
(c) The 13 members of the board shall be appointed by the Governor with the confirmation of the Senate and shall consist of two registered nursing educators, one practical nursing educator, two registered nurses employed in nursing service administration, one registered nurse employed in nursing home administration or nursing service administration, two advanced practice registered nurses, one additional registered nurse, three licensed practical nurses, and one consumer member.
(d) The board shall meet annually and shall elect from its members a president, vice president, and other officers as deemed necessary. All officers shall serve for terms of one year and until their successors have been elected. The board may hold such other meetings during the year as necessary to transact its business.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 200,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
