# § 43-26-36. Application for licensure; examination; provisional licensure of military medical personnel

(a) All applicants for a license to practice as a licensed practical nurse shall make application through the board. An applicant for licensure who has not been duly examined according to the prescribed examination approved by the board and who does not otherwise qualify for licensure under this article must apply by examination. Such applicants shall submit to the board a designated fee and written evidence verifying that the applicant:
  (1) Is at least 18 years of age;
  (2) Has graduated from high school or the equivalent thereof;
  (3) Has graduated from an approved nursing education program, as defined in Code Section 43-26-32 or from a nursing education program located outside of the United States that is determined by the board to be equivalent to and not less stringent than an approved nursing education program as defined in Code Section 43-26-32;
  (4) Is in good physical and mental health;
  (5) In the case of an applicant who has graduated from a program conducted in a foreign country, has demonstrated the ability to speak, write, and understand the English language; and
  (6) Meets such other criteria as established by the board.
(b) A person who is at least 17 years of age and meets all of the criteria set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section may apply to the board for special consideration to take the examination for licensure.
(c) Notwithstanding Code Section 43-1-35, or any other provision of law, the board, in collaboration with the Department of Veterans Service, shall establish a program through which military medical personnel may provisionally operate within their scope of practice and training for a period of 12 months without meeting the requirements provided for in paragraphs (3), (5), and (6) of subsection (a) of this Code section.
(d) For purposes of this Code section, the term "military medical personnel" means an individual who has, within 12 months of seeking licensure pursuant to this Code section, served as a medic in the United States Army, medical technician in the United States Air Force, or corpsman in the United States Navy or Coast Guard and who was discharged or released from such service under conditions other than dishonorable.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 486,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 160,§ 4, eff. 5/6/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 200,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 60,§ 5, eff. 4/29/2009.
