# § 43-26-11. Denial or revocation of licenses; other discipline

(1) Been convicted of any felony, crime involving moral turpitude, or crime violating a federal or state law relating to controlled substances or dangerous drugs in the courts of this state, any other state, territory, or country, or in the courts of the United States, including but not limited to a plea of nolo contendere entered to the charge; or
(2)
  (A) Displayed an inability to practice nursing as a registered professional nurse or licensed undergraduate nurse with reasonable skill and safety due to illness, use of alcohol, drugs, narcotics, chemicals, or any other type of material, or as a result of any mental or physical condition.
  (B) In enforcement of this paragraph, the board may, upon reasonable grounds, require a licensee or applicant to submit to a mental or physical examination by a board approved health care professional. The results of such examination shall be admissible in any hearing before the board, notwithstanding any claim of privilege under a contrary law or rule. Every person who is licensed to practice nursing as a registered professional nurse or licensed undergraduate nurse in this state or who shall file an application shall be deemed to have given such person's consent to submit to such mental or physical examination and to have waived all objections to the admissibility of the results in any hearing before the board upon the grounds that the same constitutes a privileged communication. If a licensee or applicant fails to submit to such an examination when properly directed to do so by the board, unless such failure was due to circumstances beyond that person's control, the board may enter a final order upon proper notice, hearing, and proof of such refusal. Any licensee or applicant who is prohibited from practicing under this paragraph shall at reasonable intervals be afforded an opportunity to demonstrate to the board that such person can resume or begin to practice with reasonable skill and safety nursing as a registered professional nurse or licensed undergraduate nurse.
  (C) In enforcement of this paragraph the board may, upon reasonable grounds, obtain any and all records relating to the mental or physical condition of a licensee or applicant, including psychiatric records; and such records shall be admissible in any hearing before the board, notwithstanding any privilege under a contrary rule of law or statute. Every person who is licensed as a registered professional nurse or licensed undergraduate nurse in this state or who shall file an application shall be deemed to have given such person's consent to the board's obtaining any such records and to have waived all objections to the admissibility of such records in any hearing before the board upon the grounds that the same constitute a privileged communication.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 43, eff. 4/18/2002.
