# § 21-5-13. Limitation of actions

(a) Any action alleging a violation of this chapter shall be commenced within three years after the date on which the violation, wrongful action, or omission occurred, unless otherwise provided by subsections (b) or (c) of this Code section.
(b) Any action alleging a violation involving any person elected to serve for a term of four or more years, but fewer than six years, or involving any candidate for an office with a term of four, but fewer than six years, shall be commenced within five years after the date on which the violation, wrongful action, or omission occurred.
(c) Any action alleging a violation of this chapter involving any person elected to serve a term of six or more years or involving any candidate for an office with a term of six or more years shall be commenced within seven years after the date on which the violation, wrongful act, or omission occurred.
(d) For purposes of this Code section, an action shall be deemed to have commenced against a person only when either:
  (1) A complaint has been accepted by the commission in compliance with Code Section 21-5-7; or
  (2) The commission or Attorney General serves on such person a notice of summons or hearing, in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," that alleges that such person has violated this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 521,§ 7, eff. 3/2/2022.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 680,§ 8, eff. 1/10/2011.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 452,§ 1, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 212,§ 9, eff. 1/9/2006.
