# § 21-5-34.2. Leadership committee defined; operation; separate from campaign committees

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "leadership committee" means a committee, corporation, or organization chaired by the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the nominee of a political party for Governor selected in a primary election in the year in which he or she is nominated, or the nominee of a political party for Lieutenant Governor selected in a primary election in the year in which he or she is nominated. Such term shall also mean up to two political action committees designated by the majority caucus of the House of Representatives, the minority caucus of the House of Representatives, the majority caucus of the Senate, and the minority caucus of the Senate. No person may chair more than one leadership committee.
(b) A leadership committee may receive contributions from persons who are members or supporters of the leadership committee and expend such funds as permitted by this Code section.
(c) If a person chairing a leadership committee ceases to hold the office or the status as a nominee of a political party as described in subsection (a) of this Code section, such person shall transfer the remaining assets of the leadership committee, if any, to another leadership committee within 60 days, name an eligible person as the new chairperson of the leadership committee within 60 days, or dispose of the leadership committee's assets as provided by Code Section 21-5-33.
(d) A leadership committee may accept contributions or make expenditures for the purpose of affecting the outcome of any election or advocating for the election or defeat of any candidate, may defray ordinary and necessary expenses incurred in connection with any candidate's campaign for elective office, and may defray ordinary and necessary expenses incurred in connection with a public officer's fulfillment or retention of such office.
(e) A leadership committee which accepts contributions or makes expenditures in excess of $500.00 shall register with the commission within ten days of such accepted contribution or such expenditure and, thereafter, shall file disclosure reports pursuant to the schedule defined for candidates and campaign committees in subsection (c) of Code Section 21-5-34. Such disclosure reports shall be made pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 21-5-34. The contribution limits in Code Section 21-5-41 shall not apply to contributions to a leadership committee or expenditures made by a leadership committee in support of a candidate or a group of named candidates. All communications paid for by expenditures of the leadership committee shall contain a disclaimer, either audibly or in writing, that the communication is paid for by the leadership committee, unless such disclaimer is impractical.
(f) A leadership committee shall be a separate legal entity from a candidate's campaign committee and shall not be considered an independent committee.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 219,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
