# § 21-5-36. Disposition of reports; handling of complaints and violations

(a)
  (1) It shall be the duty of the commission to make the campaign contribution disclosure reports available for public inspection and copying during regular office hours commencing as soon as practicable after such reports are filed. The commission shall have the authority to charge a fee for copying such reports not to exceed the actual cost of such copying. The commission shall preserve such reports for a period of five years from the date upon which they are received.
  (2) A qualifying officer shall notify the commission in writing of the names and addresses of all candidates and offices sought in any election within ten days of the close of the qualification period.
(b) After receiving original reports, the commission has the duty to inspect each report filed by candidates or by a campaign committee for conformity with the law and to notify the candidate or campaign committee immediately if the report does not conform with the law or is in technical violation of filing requirements. Such notification shall be by electronic means and regular United States mail.
(c) Within ten business days of the close of the qualification period, qualifying officers shall electronically report to the commission the names and addresses of all candidates and offices sought by each candidate in an election and the qualifying date for such candidate.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 680,§ 13, eff. 1/10/2011.
