# § 21-5-40. Definitions

(1) "Affiliated committees" means any two or more political committees (including a separate segregated fund) established, financed, maintained, or controlled by the same business entity, labor organization, person, or group of persons, including any parent, subsidiary, branch, division, department, or local unit thereof.
(2) "Affiliated corporation" means with respect to any business entity any other business entity related thereto: as a parent business entity; as a subsidiary business entity; as a sister business entity; by common ownership or control; or by control of one business entity by the other.
(3) "Business entity" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 21-5-3.
(4) Reserved.
(5) "Person" means an individual.
(6) "Political committee" means:
  (A) any partnership, committee, club, association, organization, party caucus of the House of Representatives or the Senate, or similar entity (other than a business entity) or any other group of persons or entities which makes a contribution; or
  (B) any separate segregated fund.
(6.1) "Political party" means any political party as that term is defined in paragraph (25) of Code Section 21-2-2, as amended; provided, however, that for purposes of this article, local, state, and national committees shall be separate political parties.
(6.2) "Public office" means the office of each elected public officer as specified in paragraph (22) of Code Section 21-5-3.
(7) "Separate segregated fund" means a fund which is established, administered, and used for political purposes by a business entity, labor organization, membership organization, or cooperative and to which the business entity, labor organization, membership organization, or cooperative solicits contributions.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 680,§ 14, eff. 1/10/2011.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 212,§ 15, eff. 1/9/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 3, § 1, eff. 2/12/2001.
