# § 43-13-6.1. Special licenses for driver training school instructors qualified to teach alcohol and drug course

(a) The commissioner shall be authorized to issue a special license to the instructor of any driver training school who is qualified to teach the alcohol and drug course prescribed in subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-142. A driver training school shall offer such alcohol and drug course only through a qualified instructor and shall not charge a fee for such course of more than $25.00.
(b) Each applicant shall submit at least one set of classifiable electronically recorded fingerprints to the department in accordance with the fingerprint system of identification established by the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation. The department shall transmit the fingerprints to the Georgia Crime Information Center, which shall submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a search of bureau records and an appropriate report and promptly conduct a search of state records based upon the fingerprints. After receiving the report from the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the department shall determine whether the applicant may be certified.
(c) The commissioner shall not issue a special license to any applicant unless he or she is a United States citizen, or if not a citizen, he or she presents federal documentation verified by the United States Department of Homeland Security to be valid documentary evidence of lawful presence in the United States under federal immigration law.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 633,§ 30, eff. 7/1/2010.
