# § 33-38-4. Definitions

(1) "Account" means any of the two accounts created under Code Section 33-38-5.
(2) "Affiliate" means any person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with the person specified.
(3) "Association" means the Georgia Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Association created under Code Section 33-38-5.
(4) "Authorized assessment," or "authorized" when used in the context of assessments, means a resolution by the board of directors of the association has been passed whereby an assessment will be called immediately or in the future from member insurers for a specified amount. An assessment is authorized when the resolution is passed.
(5) "Benefit plan" means a specific employee, union, or association of natural persons benefit plan.
(6) "Called assessment," or "called" when used in the context of assessments, means that a notice has been issued by the association to member insurers requiring that an authorized assessment be paid within the time frame set forth within the notice. An authorized assessment becomes a called assessment when notice is mailed by the association to member insurers.
(7) "Contractual obligation" means any obligation under a covered policy, contract, or certificate under a group policy or contract, or portion thereof for which coverage is provided under Code Section 33-38-2.
(8) "Control" or "controlled" means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a person, whether through ownership of voting securities, by contract other than a commercial contract for goods or nonmanagement services, or otherwise.
(9) "Covered contract" or "covered policy" means a policy or contract or portion of a policy or contract for which coverage is provided under Code Section 33-38-2.
(10) "Extra-contractual claims" shall include, for example, any claim not authorized by, or outside the scope of, the underlying policy or contract to include any claim based on bad faith, punitive or exemplary damages, treble damages, prejudgment or postjudgment interest, attorney's fees, or costs of litigation.
(11) "Health benefit plan" means any hospital or medical expense policy or certificate, health maintenance organization subscriber contract, or any other similar health contract. This term does not include:
  (A) Accident only insurance;
  (B) Credit insurance;
  (C) Dental only insurance;
  (D) Vision only insurance;
  (E) Medicare supplement insurance;
  (F) Benefits for long-term care, home health care, community based care, or any combination thereof;
  (G) Disability income insurance;
  (H) Coverage for on-site medical clinics; or
  (I) Specified disease, hospital confinement indemnity, or limited benefit health insurance if the types of coverage do not provide coordination of benefits and are provided under separate policies or certificates.
(12) "Health care corporation" means a corporation established in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 20 of Title 33 to administer one or more health care plans as defined in Code Section 33-20-3(4).
(13) "Impaired insurer" means a member insurer which is not an insolvent insurer and is placed under an order of rehabilitation or conservation by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(14) "Insolvent insurer" means a member insurer against which an order of liquidation containing a finding of insolvency has been entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(15) "Member insurer" means any insurer, health maintenance organization, or health care corporation which is licensed or which holds a certificate of authority to transact in this state any kind of insurance, health care plan, or health maintenance organization business for which coverage is provided under Code Section 33-38-2 and includes any insurer, health care corporation, or health maintenance organization whose license or certificate of authority in this state may have been suspended, revoked, not renewed, or voluntarily withdrawn, but does not include:
  (A) A fraternal benefit society;
  (B) A mandatory state pooling plan;
  (C) A mutual assessment company or any entity that operates on an assessment basis;
  (D) An insurance exchange;
  (E) An organization that has a certificate or license limited to the issuance of charitable gift annuities under Code Sections 33-58-1 through 33-58-6; or
  (F) Any entity similar to those described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of this paragraph.
(16) "Moody's Corporate Bond Yield Average" means the Monthly Average Corporates as published by Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor thereto.
(17) "Owner" of a policy or contract, "policyholder," "policy owner," and "contract owner" mean the person who is identified as the legal owner under the terms of the policy or contract or who is otherwise vested with legal title to the policy or contract through a valid assignment completed in accordance with the terms of the policy or contract and properly recorded as the owner on the books of the member insurer. The terms "owner," "contract owner," "policyholder," and "policy owner" shall not include persons with a mere beneficial interest in a policy or contract.
(18) "Person" means any individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association, governmental body or entity, or voluntary organization.
(19) "Plan sponsor" means:
  (A) The employer in the case of a benefit plan established or maintained by a single employer;
  (B) The employee organization in the case of a benefit plan established or maintained by an employee organization; or
  (C) In a case of a benefit plan established or maintained by two or more employers or jointly by one or more employers and one or more employee organizations, the association, committee, joint board of trustees, or other similar group of representatives of the parties who establish or maintain the benefit plan.
(20) "Premiums" means amounts or considerations, by whatever name called, received on covered policies or contracts, less returned premiums, considerations and deposits thereon and less dividends and experience credits. The term "premiums" shall not include:
  (A) Amounts or considerations received for policies or contracts or for the portions of policies or contracts for which coverage is not provided under this chapter except that assessable premium shall not be reduced on account of paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of Code Section 33-38-2, relating to interest limitations, and paragraph (12) of Code Section 33-38-7, relating to limitations with respect to one individual, one participant, and one policy or contract owner;
  (B) Premiums in excess of $5 million on an unallocated annuity contract; or
  (C) With respect to multiple nongroup policies of life insurance owned by one owner, whether the policy or contract owner is an individual, firm, corporation, or other person, and whether the persons insured are officers, managers, employees, or other persons, premiums in excess of $5 million with respect to these policies or contracts, regardless of the number of policies or contracts held by the owner.
(21)
  (A) "Principal place of business" of a plan sponsor or a person other than a natural person means the single state in which the natural persons who establish policy for the direction, control, and coordination of the operations of the entity as a whole primarily exercise that function, determined by the association in its reasonable judgment by considering the following factors:
    (i) The state in which the primary executive and administrative headquarters of the entity is located;
    (ii) The state in which the principal office of the chief executive officer of the entity is located;
    (iii) The state in which the board of directors, or similar governing person or persons, of the entity conducts the majority of its meetings;
    (iv) The state in which the executive or management committee of the board of directors, or similar governing person or persons, of the entity conducts the majority of its meetings;
    (v) The state from which the management of the overall operations of the entity is directed; and
    (vi) In the case of a benefit plan sponsored by affiliated companies comprising a consolidated corporation, the state in which the holding company or controlling affiliate has its principal place of business as determined using the above factors. However, in the case of a plan sponsor, if more than 50 percent of the participants in the benefit plan are employed in a single state, that state shall be deemed to be the principal place of business of the plan sponsor.
  (B) The principal place of business of a plan sponsor of a benefit plan described in subparagraph (C) of paragraph (19) of this Code section shall be deemed to be the principal place of business of the association, committee, joint board of trustees, or other similar group of representatives of the parties who establish or maintain the benefit plan that, in lieu of a specific or clear designation of a principal place of business, shall be deemed to be the principal place of business of the employer or employee organization that has the largest investment in the benefit plan in question.
(22) "Receivership court" means the court in the insolvent or impaired insurer's state having jurisdiction over the conservation, rehabilitation, or liquidation of the member insurer.
(23) "Resident" means any person who resides in this state at the time a member insurer is determined to be an impaired or insolvent insurer and to whom contractual obligations are owed. A person may be a resident of only one state, which, in the case of a person other than a natural person, shall be its principal place of business. Citizens of the United States who are either residents of foreign countries or residents of United States possessions, territories, or protectorates that do not have an association similar to the association created by this chapter shall be deemed residents of the state of domicile of the member insurer that issued the policies or contracts.
(24) "State" means a state, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and a United States possession, territory, or protectorate.
(25) "Structured settlement annuity" means an annuity purchased in order to fund periodic payments for a plaintiff or other claimant in payment for or with respect to personal injury suffered by the plaintiff or other claimant.
(26) "Supplemental contract" means a written agreement entered into for the distribution of proceeds under a life, health, or annuity policy or contract.
(27) "Unallocated annuity contract" means an annuity contract or group annuity certificate which is not issued to and owned by an individual, except to the extent of any annuity benefits guaranteed to an individual by an insurer under the contract or certificate.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 405,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 142, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 52,§ 52, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 668,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
