# § 33-38-16. Reports and recommendations as to solvency of companies; board may report information as to insolvency of member insurer; examinations of member insurers; reports of insurer insolvencies

(a) The board of directors may, upon majority vote, make reports and recommendations to the Commissioner upon any matter germane to the solvency, liquidation, rehabilitation, or conservation of any member insurer, or to the solvency of any health maintenance organization, insurer, or health care corporation seeking to do business in this state. Such reports and recommendations shall not be considered public documents.
(b) The board of directors may, upon majority vote, notify the Commissioner of any information indicating any member insurer may be an impaired or insolvent insurer.
(c) The board of directors may, upon majority vote, request that the Commissioner order an examination of any member insurer which the board in good faith believes may be an impaired or insolvent insurer. Within 30 days of the receipt of such request, the Commissioner shall begin such examination. The examination may be conducted as a National Association of Insurance Commissioners' examination or may be conducted by such persons as the Commissioner designates. The cost of such examination shall be paid by the association, and the examination report shall be treated the same as other examination reports. In no event shall such examination report be released to the board of directors prior to its release to the public, but this shall not preclude the Commissioner from complying with subsection (a) of this Code section. The Commissioner shall notify the board of directors when the examination is completed. The request for an examination shall be kept on file by the Commissioner, but it shall not be open to public inspection prior to the release of the examination report to the public.
(d) The board of directors may, upon majority vote, make recommendations to the Commissioner for the detection and prevention of member insurer insolvencies.
(e) The board of directors shall, at the conclusion of any insurer insolvency in which the association was obligated to pay covered claims, prepare a report to the Commissioner containing such information as it may have in its possession bearing on the history and causes of such insolvency. The board shall cooperate with the board of directors of guaranty associations in other states in preparing a report on the history and causes of insolvency of a particular insurer and may adopt by reference any report prepared by such other associations.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 405,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2020.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 668,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
