# § 12-17-1. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Board of Natural Resources.
(2) "Director" means the director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
(3) "Division" means the Environmental Protection Division within the Department of Natural Resources.
(4) "Existing petroleum pipeline" means a petroleum pipeline constructed and in use prior to January 1, 2016.
(5) "Expansion" means a modification to an existing petroleum pipeline within the existing easement or right of way that increases the supply of petroleum by:
  (A) Increasing the diameter of an existing petroleum pipeline; or
  (B) Constructing a parallel petroleum pipeline.
(6) "Extension" means a modification to an existing petroleum pipeline that increases the length or footprint of the existing petroleum pipeline by a distance greater than one linear mile.
(7) "Maintenance" means:
  (A) The care or upkeep of an existing petroleum pipeline and its appurtenances;
  (B) The replacement of an existing petroleum pipeline within the same easement or right of way; or
  (C) The relocation of an existing petroleum pipeline for repair within one linear mile of the existing petroleum pipeline's alignment.
(8) "New petroleum pipeline" means a petroleum pipeline that was not constructed and in use prior to January 1, 2016. The term "new petroleum pipeline" shall not include an expansion, an extension, or any maintenance.
(9) "Parallel petroleum pipeline" means a petroleum pipeline that runs side by side to an existing petroleum pipeline.
(10) "Petroleum pipeline" means a fixed conduit constructed to transport petroleum or petroleum products in or through this state.
(11) "Petroleum pipeline company" means a corporation organized under the laws of this state or which is organized under the laws of another state and is authorized to do business in this state and which is specifically authorized by its charter or articles of incorporation to construct and operate petroleum pipelines for the transportation of petroleum and petroleum products.

## History

Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 263,§ 1, eff. 5/9/2017.
