# § 12-17-3. Permit application requirements; notice

(a) Any application to the division for a permit under this chapter shall contain, at a minimum, the following:
  (1) Siting information, including, but not limited to, a map showing the proposed location of the route of the new petroleum pipeline or of the extension;
  (2) Information obtained from a cultural resource assessment conducted along the proposed route of the new petroleum pipeline or of the extension;
  (3) Information as to geological and hydrologic features along the proposed route of the new petroleum pipeline or of the extension;
  (4) Information on the presence of threatened and endangered species along the proposed route of the new petroleum pipeline or of the extension;
  (5) Environmental information described in 40 C.F.R. Sections 1502.12 through 1502.18 as such provisions existed on January 1, 2017, to the extent required by rules and regulations of the board;
  (6) Evidence of financial responsibility by the petroleum pipeline company; and
  (7) Any other information that the board may require by rules and regulations.
(b) Within ten days of applying for a permit, the applicant shall provide:
  (1) Public notice in the legal organ of each county through which the proposed route of the new petroleum pipeline or of the extension is to be located; and
  (2) Written notice of the filing of an application under this Code section to all landowners whose property is located within 1,000 feet of the proposed route of the new petroleum pipeline or of the extension. Such notice shall be delivered to each landowner and contain the following language in boldface type: "YOUR PROPERTY IS LOCATED WITHIN 1,000 FEET OF A PROPOSED PETROLEUM PIPELINE FOR WHICH AN APPLICATION FOR A PERMIT HAS BEEN FILED PURSUANT TO CHAPTER 17 OF TITLE 12 OF THE OFFICIAL CODE OF GEORGIA ANNOTATED. SAID CHAPTER ALONG WITH ARTICLE 4 OF CHAPTER 3 OF TITLE 22 OF THE OFFICIAL CODE OF GEORGIA ANNOTATED PROVIDE SPECIFIC REQUIREMENTS WHICH MUST BE FOLLOWED BY PETROLEUM PIPELINE COMPANIES BEFORE THEY MAY BUILD A NEW PETROLEUM PIPELINE OR MODIFY AN EXISTING PETROLEUM PIPELINE. THESE PROVISIONS OF THE OFFICIAL CODE OF GEORGIA ANNOTATED ALSO PROVIDE SPECIFIC RIGHTS FOR YOUR PROTECTION. YOU SHOULD FAMILIARIZE YOURSELF WITH THOSE REQUIREMENTS AND YOUR RIGHTS."

## History

Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 263,§ 1, eff. 5/9/2017.
