# § 2-17-3. Grants to regional food banks; administration; powers and duties of Department of Agriculture

(a) The Georgia Grown Farm to Food Bank Program (F2FB) is established to provide grants to regional food banks within this state for the purchase, transportation, storage, and distribution of food to emergency food providers and program participants. Such grants shall be made from funds available to the department for such purpose. Grants made pursuant to the program shall be used only for the purchase of food or agricultural commodities from Georgia grown products, as that term is used in Code Section 2-8-90, purveyors, producers, or processors for repacking or processing, or both, of food for distribution to emergency food providers and program participants.
(b) The program shall be administered by the department.
(c) All food purchases made through the use of program funds shall be made in accordance with the following standards:
  (1) All food shall be procured from Georgia grown sources;
  (2) Food shall be purchased at a level equal to or greater than the seller's input costs plus one-half of the projected appreciation costs; and
  (3) Food purchased with funds through the program shall not duplicate food available through the federal commodities program of the United States Department of Agriculture.
(d) The department shall contract with regional food banks for the operation of the program. The department, in conjunction with regional food banks, is authorized to take appropriate actions, including the entry of subcontracts, to ensure uniform access to the program by needy residents of this state. The department may allow a state nutrition information organization to provide free nutrition education as part of the program to residents of this state.
(e) The department shall, by rule or regulation, establish and enforce procedures and guidelines for the determination of eligibility for participation in the program. Such rules, regulations, and procedures shall not limit or affect the established guidelines used by emergency food providers for any of their programs for which no funds are provided through the program established pursuant to this chapter. No person who is eligible for food funded by the program shall be charged for food or encouraged to contribute money in order to receive food under the program.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 600,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
