# § 36-62-14. Perpetual existence of authority; dissolution

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, an authority created pursuant to this chapter shall have perpetual existence.
(b) If an authority does not have any outstanding unpaid bonds or bond anticipation notes, the authority may be dissolved as provided in this subsection. If the authority was activated for a single county or municipal corporation as provided in Code Section 36-62-4, the authority may be dissolved by adoption of an appropriate resolution by the governing authority of such county or municipal corporation. If the authority was activated for two or more local governments as provided in Code Section 36-62-5.1, the authority may be dissolved by the adoption of appropriate concurrent resolutions by the governing authorities of all such local governments.
(c) If an authority previously activated for a single county or municipal corporation is so dissolved, all assets and debts and rights and obligations of the former authority shall devolve to the parent county or municipal corporation. If an authority previously activated for two or more local governments is so dissolved, all assets and debts and rights and obligations of the former authority shall devolve to the parent local governments in such proportions and manner as shall be specified in the concurrent resolutions dissolving the authority.
(d) Where an authority is dissolved as provided in this Code section, it shall cease to exist as of the effective date specified in the appropriate resolution or resolutions. The dissolution of an authority, however, shall not prevent the subsequent activation of a new authority under this chapter for the same local government or local governments, in the same manner as otherwise specified in this chapter.
