# § 36-62-4. Development authorities created; appointment and terms of directors; quorum; adoption and filing of resolution of need

(a) There is created in and for each county and municipal corporation in the state a public body corporate and politic to be known as the "development authority" of such county or municipal corporation, which shall consist of a board of not less than seven and not more than nine directors to be appointed by resolution of the governing body of the county or municipal corporation. At the expiration of the current terms of office of the first four members of the board of directors, the governing body of the county or municipal corporation shall elect successors to such members to serve for initial terms of two years and shall elect successors to the remaining members of the board for initial terms of four years. Thereafter, the terms of all directors shall be for four years. The terms of any directors added to the original seven directors shall be four years. If, at the end of any term of office of any director, a successor thereto has not been elected, the director whose term of office has expired shall continue to hold office until his or her successor is so elected; provided, however, that such hold-over period shall not exceed six months. In the event that such six-month hold-over period expires without a successor being elected, the remaining directors shall elect such successor.
(b) A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum, but no action may be taken by the board without the affirmative vote of a majority of the full membership of the board.
(c) No authority shall transact any business or exercise any powers under this chapter until the governing body of the county or municipal corporation, by proper resolution, declares that there is a need for an authority to function in the county or municipal corporation. A copy of the resolution shall be filed with the Secretary of State, who shall maintain a record of all authorities activated under this chapter.
(d) In each county of this state having a population of not less than 41,700 nor more than 42,300 according to the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census, the board of directors of an industrial development authority in such county which is created directly by the Constitution of Georgia shall assume all the powers, duties, and responsibilities of and shall become the board of directors of any development authority created under this chapter which is located in such county or in any municipal corporation in such county.
(e) In each county of this state having a population of not less than 24,000 nor more than 26,000 according to the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census, the board of directors of an industrial development authority in such county which is created directly by the Constitution of Georgia may assume all the powers and responsibilities of and may become the board of directors of any development authority created under this chapter which is located in such county or in any municipal corporation in such county. Such joint boards shall have the authority to transfer any and all assets of the development authority created under this chapter to the industrial development authority which is created directly by the Constitution of Georgia; provided, however, that the governing authority of said county or municipal corporation shall approve the assumption of such powers and responsibilities.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 417,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 751,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2022.
