# § 36-62-7. Operation of project by governmental units prohibited; sale or lease of property for operation

No project acquired under this chapter shall be operated by an authority or any municipal corporation, county, or other governmental subdivision. Such a project shall be leased or sold to, or managed by, one or more persons, firms, or private corporations. Any disposition of real property by an authority pursuant to paragraph (7) of subsection (a) of Code Section 36-62-6 shall be made to one or more persons, firms, corporations, or governmental or public entities. If revenue bonds or other obligations are to be issued to pay all or part of the cost of the project, the project must be so leased or the contract for its sale or management must be entered into prior to or simultaneously with the issuance of the bonds or obligations; provided, however, that the acquisition and development of land by an authority as the site for an industrial park as provided in this chapter or the acquisition and development of land by an authority as the site for a sports facility or amphitheater in accordance with Code Section 36-62-2 and the operation of such a sports facility or amphitheater shall not be deemed to be the operation of a project and, notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, an authority shall not be required to enter into a lease of such a project or a contract for its sale or management as a condition to the issuance of bonds or other obligations of the authority to provide financing therefor. If sold, the purchase price may be paid at one time or in installments falling due over not more than 40 years from the date of transfer of possession. The lessee or purchaser shall be required to pay all costs of operating and maintaining the leased or purchased property and to pay rentals or installments in amounts sufficient to pay the principal of and the interest and premium, if any, on all of its bonds and other obligations as such principal and interest become due. If the project is managed, the management contract must contain a term not less than the final maturity date of any bonds or other obligations of the authority to provide financing for the managed project and must provide that all costs of operating and maintaining the managed project, including all management fees payable under the management contract, shall be paid solely from the revenues of the managed project and from the proceeds of any bonds or other obligations of the authority to provide financing for the managed project. Any such management contract may contain provisions allowing the authority to terminate the management contract, but if the authority exercises any right to terminate a management contract, it must immediately enter into another management contract meeting the requirements of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 562,§ 36, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 100, § 3, eff. 7/1/2003.
