# § 33-20E-5. Payment for nonemergency medical services

(a) In accordance with Code Section 33-20E-7 and this chapter, an insurer that provides any benefits to covered persons with respect to nonemergency medical services shall pay for such services in the event that such services resulted in a surprise bill regardless of whether the healthcare provider furnishing nonemergency medical services is a participating provider with respect to nonemergency medical services.
(b) In the event a covered person receives a surprise bill for the provision of nonemergency medical services from a nonparticipating medical provider, the nonparticipating provider shall collect or bill the covered person no more than such person's deductible, coinsurance, copayment, or other cost-sharing amount as determined by such person's policy directly and such insurer shall directly pay such provider the greater of:
  (1) The verifiable contracted amount paid by all eligible insurers subject to the provisions of this chapter for the provision of the same or similar services as determined by the department;
  (2) The most recent verifiable amount agreed to by the insurer and the nonparticipating provider for the provision of the same services during such time as such provider was in-network with such insurer; or
  (3) Such higher amount as the insurer may deem appropriate given the complexity and circumstances of the services provided. Any amount that the insurer pays the nonparticipating provider under this subsection shall not be required to include any amount of coinsurance, copayment, or deductible owed by the covered person or already paid by such person.
(c) For purposes of the covered person's financial responsibilities, the healthcare plan shall treat the nonemergency medical services received by the covered person from a nonparticipating provider pursuant to this Code section as if such services were provided by a participating provider, and shall include applying the covered person's cost-sharing for such services toward the covered person's deductible and maximum out-of-pocket limit applicable to services obtained from a participating provider under the healthcare plan.
(d) All insurer payments made to providers pursuant to this Code section shall be in accord with Code Section 33-24-59.14. Such payments shall accompany notification to the provider from the insurer disclosing whether the healthcare plan is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U.S.C. Sec. 1001, et seq.
(e) Notwithstanding any other law or regulation to the contrary, nothing in this Code section shall affect a covered person's financial responsibilities or a nonparticipating facility's rights with respect to nonemergency medical services received from a nonparticipating facility.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 867,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022, app. to all policies or contracts issued, delivered, issued for delivery, or renewed in this state on or after 7/1/2022.
Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 470,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2021.
