# § 33-20E-10. Dismissal of arbitration requests

(a) The Commissioner shall dismiss certain requests for arbitration if the disputed claim is:
  (1) Related to a healthcare plan that is not regulated by the state;
  (2) The basis for an action pending in state or federal court at the time of the request for arbitration;
  (3) Subject to a binding claims resolution process entered into prior to July 1, 2021;
  (4) Made against a healthcare plan subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U.S.C. Sec. 1001, et seq.; or
  (5) In accord with other circumstances as may be determined by department rule.
(b) The Commissioner may dismiss certain requests for arbitration in the following circumstances:
  (1) The provider or facility has engaged in a pattern or practice of any of the following:
    (A) Failing to respond to the department's requests for data under Code Section 33-20E-11.1;
    (B) Failing to respond to the department's other inquires after filing requests for arbitration; or
    (C) Failing to pay resolution organizations as required under Code Section 33-20E-16;
  (2) The provider or facility failed to file its request for arbitration within 60 days of receipt of payment for the claim and concurrently provide the insurer with a copy of such request; or
  (3) The provider or facility failed to explain in detail the reasons arbitration is needed. Such explanation shall include a representation as to whether the insurer's payment was in accord with the relevant provisions of Code Sections 33-20E-4 or 33-20E-5 if the party requesting arbitration is an out-of-network provider, and Code Section 33-20E-4 if the requesting party is out-of-network facility. If such payment was in such accord, the explanation shall provide in detail the complexity and circumstances of the services provided which necessitate additional payment.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 223,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 470,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2021.
