# § 43-9-7. Qualifications of applicants for license to practice chiropractic

(a) Any person wishing to practice chiropractic in this state shall make application to the board through the division director in such form as may be adopted and directed by the board.
(b) The application shall recite the history of the applicant's educational qualifications, how long he or she has studied chiropractic, what collateral branches, if any, he or she has studied, and the length of time he or she has engaged in clinical practice, with proof thereof in the form of diplomas, certificates, and other information, and shall accompany the application with satisfactory evidence of good character and reputation.
(c) Each applicant shall provide with his or her application an application fee in an amount established by the board.
(d) Each applicant shall be of good moral character and shall be a graduate of a chiropractic school or college accredited by the Council on Chiropractic Education or a board approved successor or a chiropractic school or college which is actively seeking accreditation from the Council on Chiropractic Education or a board approved successor, which requires a four-year standard college course and is approved by the board.
(e) In addition to the requirements heretofore provided in this Code section, each applicant for examination shall have successfully concluded two years' general college training in schools or colleges approved by the Southern Association of Accredited Colleges and Universities or schools or colleges approved by virtue of reciprocity through such association. The board is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations regarding such requirements with respect to schools or colleges in foreign countries not approved by the Southern Association of Accredited Colleges and Universities.
(f) A student enrolled in the last academic year of a chiropractic school or college meeting the requirements of this chapter as set forth in subsection (d) of this Code section may, at the discretion of the board, take the examination as required in Code Section 43-9-8; provided, however, that such student has successfully completed all other requirements for application for licensure as established either by this chapter or by board rule. Such a student who successfully passes the examination shall not be eligible for licensure until all of the requirements of application for licensure established by this chapter or board rule are met.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 17, eff. 5/20/2010.
