# § 43-9-1. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Georgia Board of Chiropractic Examiners.
(2) "Chiropractic" means the adjustment of the articulations of the human body, including ilium, sacrum, and coccyx, and the use of X-ray, provided that the X-ray shall not be used for therapeutical purposes. The term shall also mean that separate and distinct branch of the healing arts whose science and art utilize the inherent recuperative powers of the body and the relationship between the musculoskeletal structures and functions of the body, particularly of the spinal column and the nervous system, in the restoration and maintenance of health. Chiropractic is a learned profession which teaches that the relationship between structure and function in the human body is a significant health factor and that such relationships between the spinal column and the nervous system are most significant, since the normal transmission and expression of nerve energy are essential to the restoration and maintenance of health. However, the term shall not include the use of drugs or surgery. The adjustment referred to in this paragraph and subsection (b) of Code Section 43-9-16 may only be administered by a doctor of chiropractic authorized to do so by the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that the provisions of this Code section shall not prevent any other health care provider from administering techniques authorized within their scope of practice.
(3) "Practice of chiropractic" shall also include peer review which is defined as the procedure by which chiropractors licensed in this state evaluate the quality and efficiency of services ordered or performed by other chiropractors, including but not limited to practice analysis, audit, claims review, underwriting assistance, utilization review, and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations.
(4) "Subluxation" means a complex of functional or pathological articular changes that compromise neural integrity and general health. A subluxation is evaluated, diagnosed, and managed through the use of chiropractic procedures based on the best available rational and empirical evidence.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 43, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 251,§ 1, eff. 5/24/2007.
