# § 50-1-11. Proof of COVID-19 vaccination for government services prohibited; exceptions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Agency" means:
    (A) Every state department, agency, board, bureau, office, commission, public corporation, and authority;
    (B) Every county, municipal corporation, school district, or other political subdivision of this state;
    (C) Every department, agency, board, bureau, office, commission, authority, or similar body of each such county, municipal corporation, or other political subdivision of this state; and
    (D) Every city, county, regional, or other authority established pursuant to the laws of this state.
  (2) "COVID-19" means severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), and any mutation or viral fragments thereof, or any disease or condition caused by severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2), which was the subject of the public health state of emergency declared by the Governor on March 14, 2020.
(b)
  (1) No agency shall require proof of COVID-19 vaccination of any person as a condition of providing any service or access to any facility, issuing any license, permit, or other type of authorization, or performing any duty of such agency.
  (2) No agency, through any rule, regulation, ordinance, resolution, or other action shall require that any person or private entity require proof of COVID-19 vaccination of any person as a condition of providing any service or access to any facility, or as a condition of such person or private entity's performance of any regular activity by such person or private entity.
(c) This Code section shall not apply if compliance with this Code section would require an agency to violate one or more regulations of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services or any federal contractual terms applying to workplace locations in which one or more individuals are working on or in connection with a federal government contract.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 254,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2023.
Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 819,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
