# § 50-1-5. Meetings by teleconference or other similar means

(a) Unless specifically prohibited by the laws relating to a particular board, body, or committee, any board, body, or committee of state government may meet by teleconference or other similar means. The methods of meeting permitted under this Code section shall include telephone conference calls, meetings held through two-way interactive closed circuit television or satellite television signal, or any other similar method which allows each member of the board or body participating in the meeting to hear and speak to each other member participating in the meeting.
(b) Nothing in this Code section shall eliminate any otherwise applicable requirement for giving notice of any meeting. Likewise, nothing in this Code section shall create a requirement for giving notice of any meeting where it does not otherwise exist. The notice shall list each location where any member of the board, body, or committee plans to participate in the meeting if the meeting is otherwise open to the public; provided, however, it shall not be grounds to contest any actions of the board, body, or committee as provided in Code Section 50-14-1 if a member participates from a location other than the location listed in the notice. At a minimum, the notice shall list one specific location where the public can participate in the meeting if the meeting is otherwise open to the public. The notice shall further conform with the notice provisions of Code Section 50-14-1. Any meeting which is otherwise required by law to be open to the public shall be open to the public at each location listed in the notice or where any member of the board, body, or committee participates in the meeting.
(c) The provisions of this Code section shall be broadly construed to cover any board, body, or committee of state government which is required or authorized to hold any meeting concerning state government affairs, regardless of the name by which any such entity may be known. The provisions of this Code section are specifically made applicable to the legislative and judicial branches of state government as well as the executive branch. With respect to the judicial branch, however, this Code section shall not apply to actual court sessions but shall apply to other administrative or judicial proceedings in the judicial branch. With respect to the legislative branch, this Code section shall not apply to actual sessions of the Senate or the House of Representatives but shall apply to committee meetings and other administrative proceedings.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 605,§ 15, eff. 4/17/2012.
