# § 50-1-6. Credit card payments to state and local governments authorized

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of general or local law to the contrary, any officer or unit of state or local government who or which is required or authorized to receive or collect any payments to state or local government is authorized but not required to accept credit card payment of such amounts.
(b) This Code section shall be broadly construed to authorize but not require acceptance of credit card payments by:
  (1) All departments, agencies, boards, bureaus, commissions, authorities, and other units of state government, by whatever name called;
  (2) All officers, officials, employees, and agents of the state and such units of state government, by whatever name called;
  (3) All political subdivisions of the state, including counties, municipalities, school districts, and local authorities;
  (4) All departments, agencies, boards, bureaus, commissions, authorities, and other units of such political subdivisions, by whatever name called; and
  (5) All officers, officials, employees, and agents of such units of political subdivisions.
(c) This Code section shall be broadly construed to authorize but not require acceptance of credit card payments of all types of amounts payable, including but not limited to taxes, license and registration fees, fines, and penalties. For purposes of this Code section, the term "credit card" shall be deemed to include credit cards, charge cards, and debit cards.
(d) The decision as to whether to accept credit card payments for any particular type of payment shall be made by the officer or board or other body having general discretionary authority over the manner of acceptance of such type of payments. If credit card payments are to be accepted, such officer or board or other body shall be authorized to adopt reasonable policies, rules, or regulations not in conflict with this Code section governing the manner of acceptance of credit card payments. However, no credit card payments shall be accepted for local ad valorem taxes without the formal agreement of the governing authority of the political subdivision for whose benefit such taxes are collected, and no credit card payments shall be accepted for any state taxes or fees without formal approval by the State Depository Board. The officer or board or other body having the general discretionary authority over the manner of acceptance of such payments shall be authorized to enter into appropriate agreements with credit card issuers or other appropriate parties as needed to facilitate the acceptance of credit card payments. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, such agreements may provide for the acceptance of credit card payments at a discount from their face amount or the payment or withholding of administrative fees from the face amount of such payments. Such discount or administrative fees may be authorized when the officer or board or other body determines that any reduction of revenue resulting from such discount or fees will be in the best interest of state or local government. Factors which may be considered in making such a determination may include but are not necessarily limited to improved governmental cash flow, reduction of governmental overhead, improved governmental financial security, or a combination of one or more of the foregoing together with the benefit of increased public convenience. Any such agreement shall provide that it may be canceled at any time by the affected officer or unit of state or local government, but the agreement may include provisions for a reasonable brief period of notice for cancellation.
(e) An officer or board or other body authorizing acceptance of credit card payments shall be authorized but not required to impose a surcharge upon the person making a payment by credit card so as to wholly or partially offset the amount of any discount or administrative fees charged to state or local government. The surcharge will be applied only when allowed by the operating rules and regulations of the credit card involved. When a party elects to make a payment to state or local government by credit card and such a surcharge is imposed, the payment of such surcharge shall be deemed voluntary by such party and shall be in no case refundable.
(f) No person making any payment by credit card to state or local government shall be relieved from liability for the underlying obligation except to the extent that state or local government realizes final payment of the underlying obligation in cash or the equivalent. If final payment is not made by the credit card issuer or other guarantor of payment in the credit card transaction, then the underlying obligation shall survive and state or local government shall retain all remedies for enforcement which would have applied if the credit card transaction had not occurred. No contract may modify the provisions of this subsection. This subsection, however, shall not make the underlying obligor liable for any discount or administrative fees paid to a credit card issuer or other party by state or local government.
(g) A state or local government officer or employee who accepts a credit card payment in accordance with this Code section and any applicable policies, rules, or regulations of state or local government shall not thereby incur any personal liability for the final collection of such payments.
