# § 36-91-52. Bid and bidder defined; withdrawal of bids for appreciable errors; resubmission

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "bid" includes proposal and the term "bidder" includes offeror.
(b) Any governmental entity receiving bids subject to this article shall permit a bidder to withdraw a bid from consideration after the bid opening without forfeiture of the bid security if the bidder has made an appreciable error in the calculation of his or her bid and if:
  (1) Such error in the calculation of his or her bid can be documented by clear and convincing written evidence;
  (2) Such error can be clearly shown by objective evidence drawn from inspection of the original work papers, documents, or materials used in the preparation of the bid sought to be withdrawn;
  (3) The bidder serves written notice upon the governmental entity which invited proposals for the work prior to the award of the contract and not later than 48 hours after the opening of bids, excluding Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays;
  (4) The bid was submitted in good faith and the mistake was due to a calculation or clerical error, an inadvertent omission, or a typographical error as opposed to an error in judgment; and
  (5) The withdrawal of the bid will not result in undue prejudice to the governmental entity or other bidders by placing them in a materially worse position than they would have occupied if the bid had never been submitted.
(c) In the event that an apparent successful bidder has withdrawn his or her bid as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, action on the remaining bids should be considered as though the withdrawn bid had not been received. In the event the project is relet for bids, under no circumstances shall a bidder who has filed a request to withdraw a bid be permitted to resubmit a bid for the work.
(d) No bidder who is permitted to withdraw a bid pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall for compensation supply any material or labor to, or perform any subcontract or other work agreement for, the person or firm to whom the contract is awarded or otherwise benefit, directly or indirectly, from the performance of the project for which the withdrawn bid was submitted.

## History

Former § 36-91-52 was renumbered as § 36-91-72 by 2001 Ga. Laws 261, § 12, eff. 7/1/2001.
Renumbered from § 36-91-43 and amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 261, § 12, eff. 7/1/2001.
