# § 36-91-102. Planning, finance, construction, acquisition, leasing, operation, and maintenance of projects; implementation; lobbying restrictions

(a) In addition to other methods of procurement authorized by law, local governing authorities and local authorities shall be authorized to utilize the procedures of this article to provide for the planning, finance, construction, acquisition, leasing, operation, and maintenance of projects. The provisions of this article shall be an alternative to such other methods to be exercised at the option of each local governing authority or local authority.
(b) After identifying or being informed of any project that may be suitable for utilization of the procedures of this article, one or more local governing authorities and local authorities may participate in consideration and implementation of a project. Where more than one local governing authority or local authority agrees to participate in consideration or implementation of a project, the participants shall designate one of their number to be the lead local authority for purposes of implementing the procedures of this article; provided, however, that not less than one representative of each such participating local governing authority or local authority, as agreed to by such local governing authorities or local authorities, shall have the right to participate in all aspects of such implementation.
(c)
  (1) The lead local authority shall evaluate a project to determine, in the judgment of the lead local authority, appropriate or desirable levels of state, local, and private participation in financing, constructing, and operating such project. In making such determinations, the lead local authority shall seek the advice and input of affected local governments and is encouraged to seek the advice and input of the Water Supply Division of the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority, affected local governing authorities, applicable planning organizations, and the private financial and construction sectors.
  (2) The lead local authority shall be authorized to issue a written request for proposals indicating the scope of the project, the proposed financial participations in the project, and the factors that will be used in evaluating the proposals as well as the relative importance of the evaluation factors, and containing or incorporating by reference other applicable contractual terms and conditions, including any unique capabilities or qualifications that will be required of the contractor. Public notice of such request for proposal shall be made at least 90 days prior to the date set for receipt of proposals by posting the legal notice on the websites of each participating local governing authority and local authority in substantially the same manner utilized by such authority to solicit requests for proposals, with a copy of such notice provided simultaneously to each affected local government.
  (3) Upon receipt of a proposal or proposals responsive to the request for proposals, the lead local authority shall accept written public comment, solicited in the same manner as provided for notice of proposals, for a period of 30 days beginning at least ten days after the date set for receipt of proposals. In addition, the lead local authority shall hold at least one public hearing on such proposals within the jurisdiction of each participating local governing authority, participating local authority, or affected local government not later than the conclusion of the period for public comment.
  (4)
    (A) The lead local authority, acting by and through a designated representative appointed for such purposes, and with the participation of any designated representatives of other participating local governing authorities or local authorities, shall engage in individual discussions with each respondent deemed fully qualified, responsible, and suitable on the basis of initial responses and with emphasis on professional competence and ability to meet the level of private financial participation called for by the local governing authority. Repetitive informal interviews shall be permissible. Any affected local governments shall receive ten days' notice of any such individual discussions and interviews and may participate through an appointed representative. In the event that the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority or any other state authority or agency agrees to consider or participate in the project, a representative of such authority or agency appointed by such authority or agency may participate in such discussions and interviews.
    (B) At the discussion stage, the representatives may discuss estimates of total project costs, including, but not limited to, life cycle costing and nonbinding estimates of price for services. Discussions conducted with respondents pursuant to this subparagraph shall not be public meetings subject to the provisions of Chapter 14 of Title 50. Proprietary information or trade secrets may be designated by a respondent as subject to one or more exemptions from public disclosure pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 50-18-72, but such designation shall not be binding on the participating local governing authorities, local authorities, and affected local governments unless consistent with applicable law.
    (C)
      (i) At the conclusion of the discussion stage, on the basis of evaluation factors published in the request for proposal and all information developed in the selection process, the designated representative, with the input of the representatives of any other participating entity and in an open and public meeting subject to the provisions of Chapter 14 of Title 50, shall select in the order of preference one or more respondents whose qualifications and proposed services are deemed most meritorious.
      (ii) Negotiations shall then be conducted by the designated representative with the selected respondents. A representative of any participating local governing authority, participating local authority, and participating state agency or authority shall have the right to notice of and participation in such negotiations. Negotiations conducted with selected respondents pursuant to this division shall not be public meetings subject to the provisions of Chapter 14 of Title 50.
    (D) The designated representative shall select for approval by the lead local authority the respondent for project implementation based upon contract terms that are the most satisfactory and advantageous to the participating local governing authorities and local authorities based upon a thorough assessment of value and the ability of the final project's characteristics to meet the goals of the participating local governing authorities and local authorities, consistent with applicable state-wide and regional water plans and local comprehensive plans. Before making such selection, the designated representative shall consult in an open and public meeting subject to the provisions of Chapter 14 of Title 50 with the representatives of any participating local governing authority, participating local authority, participating state agency or authority, and affected local government. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the terms and conditions for multiple awards are included in the request for proposal, the lead local authority may award contracts to more than one respondent. Should the lead local authority determine in writing that only one respondent is fully qualified, or that one respondent is clearly more highly qualified and suitable than the others under consideration, a contract may be negotiated and awarded to that respondent.
    (E) Upon approval of the selection by the lead local authority, a contract or contracts not exceeding 50 years in duration may be entered into with the selected respondents on behalf of all participating entities, subject to approval by each such participating entity and by each affected local government.
  (5) A dispute over the award of a contract under this article shall be resolved by the filing of a petition in the superior court of the county in which the lead local authority is located within 30 days of the awarding of such contract and shall be determined through the use of a special master appointed by the judge of the superior court of the county in which the lead local authority is located. The decision of the special master with regard to such dispute shall be appealable for a de novo review to the superior court of the county in which the lead local authority is located within 30 days following the decision of the special master. Neither the special master nor the superior court shall be authorized to enjoin or otherwise delay or suspend the execution of the contract and any work to be performed under such contract.
  (6) Nothing in this Code section shall require the designated representatives, the lead local authority, or any local governing authority, local authority, or state agency or authority to continue negotiations or discussions arising out of any request for proposal.
  (7) Every local governing authority and local authority shall be authorized to promulgate reasonable rules or regulations to assist in its evaluation of proposals and to implement the purposes of this article.
(d) No public officer, employee, or member of a local governing authority or local authority, with respect to contracts of such local governing authority or local authority, or the General Assembly shall serve as an agent, lobbyist, or board member for any private entity directly or indirectly under a contract or negotiating a contract provided for by this article for three years after leaving his or her position as a public officer, employee, or member of the local governing authority, local authority, or the General Assembly.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 36, eff. 5/1/2012.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 49,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2011.
