# § 36-91-92. Notice of commencement

(a) The contractor furnishing the payment bond or security deposit shall post on the public works construction site and file with the clerk of the superior court in the county in which the site is located a notice of commencement no later than 15 days after the contractor physically commences work on the project and supply a copy of the notice of commencement to any subcontractor, materialman, or person who makes a written request of the contractor. Failure to supply a copy of the notice of commencement within ten calendar days of receipt of the written request from the subcontractor, materialman, or person shall render the provisions of paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of Code Section 36-91-93 inapplicable to the subcontractor, materialman, or person making the request. The notice of commencement shall include:
  (1) The name, address, and telephone number of the contractor;
  (2) The name and location of the public work being constructed or a general description of the improvement;
  (3) The name and address of the governmental entity that is contracting for the public works construction;
  (4) The name and address of the surety for the performance and payment bonds, if any; and
  (5) The name and address of the holder of the security deposit provided, if any.
(b) The failure to file a notice of commencement shall render the notice to contractor requirements of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 36-91-93 inapplicable.
(c) The clerk of the superior court shall file the notice of commencement within the records of that office and maintain an index separate from other real estate records or an index with the preliminary notices specified in subsection (a) of Code Section 44-14-361.3. Each such notice of commencement shall be indexed under the name of the governmental entity and the name of the contractor as contained in the notice of commencement.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 194,§ 8, eff. 5/6/2013.
Renumbered from § 36-91-72 and amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 261, § 12, eff. 7/1/2001.
