# § 36-91-114. Approval process

(a) The local government may approve the project in an unsolicited proposal submitted by a private entity pursuant to Code Section 36-91-113 as a qualifying project. Determination by the local government of a qualifying project shall not bind the local government or the private entity to proceed with the qualifying project.
(b) Upon the local government's determination of a qualifying project as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, the local government shall:
  (1) Seek competing proposals for the qualifying project by issuing a request for proposals for not less than 90 days; and
  (2) Review all proposals submitted in response to the request for proposals based on the criteria established in the request for proposals.
(c) When the time for receiving proposals expires, the local government shall first rank the proposals in accordance with the factors set forth in the request for proposal or invitation for bids. The local government shall not be required to select the proposal with the lowest price offer, but it may consider price as one of various factors in evaluating the proposals received in response to the request for proposals for a qualifying project. Factors that may be considered include:
  (1) The proposed cost of the qualifying project;
  (2) The general reputation, industry experience, and financial capacity of the private entity;
  (3) The proposed design of the qualifying project;
  (4) The eligibility of the facility for accelerated selection, review, and documentation timelines under the local government's guidelines;
  (5) Benefits to the public;
  (6) The private entity's compliance with a minority business enterprise participation plan;
  (7) The private entity's plans to employ local contractors and residents; and
  (8) Other criteria that the local government deems appropriate.
(d) After ranking the proposals, the local government shall begin negotiations with the first ranked private entity. If the local government and the first ranked private entity do not reach a comprehensive agreement or interim agreement, then the local government may conduct negotiations with the next ranked private entity. This process shall continue until the local government either voluntarily abandons the process or executes a comprehensive agreement or interim agreement with a private entity.
(e) At any time during the process outlined in this Code section but before the full execution of a comprehensive agreement, the local government may, without liability to any private entity or third party, cancel its request for proposals or reject all proposals received in response to its request for proposals, including the unsolicited proposal, for any reason whatsoever.
(f) Nothing in this article shall enlarge, diminish, or affect the authority, if any, otherwise possessed by the local government to take action that would impact the debt capacity of the State of Georgia or any local government. The credit of this state shall not be pledged or loaned to any private entity. The local government shall not loan money to the private entity in order to finance all or a portion of the qualifying project. A multiyear lease entered into by a local government which is not terminable at the end of each fiscal year during the term of the lease shall be considered a debt of the local government which enters into such lease, and such lease shall apply against the debt limitations of the local government.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 72,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2015.
