# § 36-91-116. Default and remedies

(a) In the event of a material default by the private entity, the local government may terminate, with cause, the comprehensive agreement and exercise any other rights and remedies that may be available to it at law or in equity, including, but not limited to, claims under the maintenance, performance, or payment bonds; other forms of security; or letters of credit required by Code Section 36-91-115.
(b) The local government may elect to assume the responsibilities and duties of the private entity of the qualifying project, and in such case, it shall succeed to all of the right, title, and interest in such qualifying project subject to statutory limitations on the availability of future appropriated or otherwise unobligated funds.
(c) The power of eminent domain shall not be delegated to any private entity with respect to any project commenced or proposed pursuant to this article. Any local government having the power of condemnation under state law may exercise such power of condemnation to acquire the qualifying project in the event of a material default by the private entity. Any person who has perfected a security interest in the qualifying project may participate in the condemnation proceedings with the standing of a property owner.
(d) In the event the local government elects to take over a qualifying project pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, the local government may develop the qualifying project, impose user fees, and impose and collect lease payments for the use thereof.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 72,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2015.
