# § 36-91-101. Authority to enter into contracts; costs; grants or loans; eminent domain

(a) Local governing authorities and local authorities shall be authorized to enter into contracts provided for by this article with private persons, firms, associations, or corporations providing for or delegating the responsibility for procuring all permits, licenses, and permissions from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof; the State of Georgia, its departments, agencies, or authorities; or any county or municipality of this state as necessary or required for the purpose of constructing projects within this state, and to plan, finance, construct, acquire, lease, operate, or maintain such projects or cause such projects to be planned, financed, constructed, acquired, leased, operated, or maintained. Such contracts may provide for the reimbursement to the private person, firm, association, or corporation of costs and expenses associated with the execution thereof through service payments, user fees, purchase payments, and such other consideration as the local governing authority or local authority may deem appropriate. Such contracts may provide for the assumption by such local governing authority or local authority of such projects, permits, licenses, and permissions at such times as appropriate for the construction of the project or as otherwise agreed upon.
(b) A local governing authority or local authority may take any action to obtain federal, state, or local assistance for a project that serves the public purpose of this article and may enter into any contracts required to receive such assistance. A local governing authority or local authority may determine that it serves the public purpose of this article for all or any portion of the costs of a project to be paid, directly or indirectly, from the proceeds of a grant or loan made by the federal, state, or local government or any instrumentality thereof. A local governing authority or local authority may agree to make grants or loans to the operator of a project from time to time from amounts received from the federal, state, or local government or any agency or instrumentality thereof.
(c) Nothing in this article shall be construed to delegate the power of eminent domain to any private entity with respect to any project commenced or proposed pursuant to this article. Any local governing authority may exercise the power of eminent domain in the manner provided by law for the purpose of acquiring any property or interests therein to the extent that such action serves the public purpose of this article.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 49,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2011.
