# § 36-91-22. Exceptions; use of inmate labor; emergency situations

(a) The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to public works construction projects, when the same can be performed at a cost of less than $100,000.00. Public works construction projects shall not be subdivided in an effort to evade the provisions of this chapter.
(b) Any governmental entity having a correctional institution shall have the power and authority to purchase material for and use inmate labor in performing public works construction projects; and in such cases, this chapter shall not apply. Any governmental entity may contract with a governmental entity having a correctional institution for the use of inmate labor from such institution and use the inmates in the performance of any public works construction project; and in such cases, this chapter shall not apply.
(c) In the event that the labor used or to be used in a public works construction project is furnished at no expense by the state or federal government or any agency thereof, the governing authority shall have the power and authority to purchase material for such public works construction project and use the labor furnished free to the governmental entity; and in such case, this chapter shall not apply.
(d) Where a public works construction contract involves the expenditure of federal assistance or funds, the receipt of which is conditioned upon compliance with federal laws or regulations regarding the procedures for awarding public works construction contracts, a governmental entity shall comply with such federal requirements and shall not be required to comply with the provisions of this chapter that differ from the federal requirements. The governmental entity shall provide notice that federal procedures exist for the award of such contracts in the advertisement required by subsection (b) of Code Section 36-91-20. The availability and location of such federal requirements shall be provided to any person requesting such information.
(e) The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to public works construction projects necessitated by an emergency; provided, however, that the nature of the emergency shall be described in the minutes of the governing authority. Any contract let by a county pursuant to this subsection shall be ratified, as soon as practicable, on the minutes of the governing authority, and the nature of the emergency shall be described therein.
(f) Except as otherwise provided in Chapter 4 of Title 32, the requirements of this chapter shall not apply to public works construction projects subject to the requirements of Chapter 4 of Title 32.
(g) The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to public works construction projects or any portion of a public works construction project self-performed by a governmental entity. If the governmental entity contracts with a private person or entity for a portion of such project, the provisions of this chapter shall apply to any such contract estimated to exceed $100,000.00.
(h) The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to sole source public works construction contracts.
(i) The requirements of this chapter shall not apply to hospital authorities; provided, however, that a public works construction contract entered into by a hospital authority shall be subject to the requirements of this chapter if, in connection with such contract, the hospital authority either:
  (1) Incurs indebtedness and secures such indebtedness by pledging amounts to be received by such authority from one or more counties or municipalities through an intergovernmental contract entered into in accordance with Code Section 31-7-85; or
  (2) Receives funds from the state or one or more counties or municipalities for the purpose of financing a public works construction project, which moneys are not for reimbursement of health services provided.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 261, § 12, eff. 7/1/2001.
