# § 36-91-50. Projects requiring bid bonds; revocation of bids; surety

(a) Bid bonds shall be required for all public works construction contracts subject to the requirements of this article with estimated bids or proposals over $100,000.00; provided, however, that a governmental entity may require a bid bond for projects with estimated bids or proposals of $100,000.00 or less.
(b) In the case of competitive sealed bids, except as provided in Code Sections 36-91-52 and 36-91-53, a bid may not be revoked or withdrawn until 60 days after the time set by the governmental entity for opening of bids. Upon expiration of this time period, the bid will cease to be valid, unless the bidder provides written notice to the governmental entity prior to the scheduled expiration date that the bid will be extended for a time period specified by the governmental entity.
(c) In the case of competitive sealed proposals, the governmental entity shall advise offerors in the request for proposals of the number of days that offerors will be required to honor their proposals; provided, however, that if an offeror is not selected within 60 days of opening the proposals, any offeror that is determined by the governmental entity to be unlikely of being selected for contract award shall be released from his or her proposal.
(d) If a governmental entity requires a bid bond for any public works construction contract, no bid or proposal for a contract with the governmental entity shall be valid for any purpose unless the contractor shall give a bid bond with good and sufficient surety or sureties approved by the governing authority. The bid bond shall be in the amount of not less than 5 percent of the total amount payable by the terms of the contract. No bid or proposal shall be considered if a proper bid bond or other security authorized in Code Section 36-91-51 has not been submitted. The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to any bid or proposal for a contract that is required by law to be accompanied by a proposal guaranty and shall not apply to any bid or proposal for a contract with any public agency or body which receives funding from the United States Department of Transportation and which is primarily engaged in the business of public transportation.

## History

Former § 36-91-50 was renumbered as § 36-91-70 by 2001 Ga. Laws 261, § 12, eff. 7/1/2001.
Renumbered from § 36-91-41 and amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 261, § 12, eff. 7/1/2001.
2001 Ga. Laws 261, § 12, redesignated former Chapter 91, Article 4, §§ 36-91-50 through 36-91-52 as Chapter 91, Article 3, Part 3, §§ 36-91-70 through 36-91-72. .
