# § 36-91-2. Definitions

(1) "Alternate bids" means the amount stated in the bid or proposal to be added to or deducted from the amount of the base bid or base proposal if the corresponding change in project scope or alternate materials or methods of construction is accepted.
(2) "Base bid" or "base proposal" means the amount of money stated in the bid or proposal as the sum for which the bidder or proposer offers to perform the work.
(3) "Bid bond" means a bond with good and sufficient surety or sureties for the faithful acceptance of the contract payable to, in favor of, and for the protection of the governmental entity for which the contract is to be awarded.
(4) "Change order" means an alteration, addition, or deduction from the original scope of work as defined by the contract documents to address changes or unforeseen conditions necessary for project completion.
(5) "Competitive sealed bidding" means a method of soliciting public works construction contracts whereby the award is based upon the lowest responsive, responsible bid in conformance with the provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 36-91-21.
(6) "Competitive sealed proposals" means a method of soliciting public works contracts whereby the award is based upon criteria identified in a request for proposals in conformance with the provisions of subsection (c) of Code Section 36-91-21.
(7) "Emergency" means any situation resulting in imminent danger to the public health or safety or the loss of an essential governmental service.
(8) "Governing authority" means the official or group of officials responsible for governance of a governmental entity.
(9) "Governmental entity" means a county, municipal corporation, consolidated government, authority, board of education, or other public board, body, or commission but shall not include any authority, board, department, or commission of the state, or a public transportation agency as defined by Chapter 9 of Title 32.
(10) "Payment bond" means a bond with good and sufficient surety or sureties payable to the governmental entity for which the work is to be done and intended for the use and protection of all subcontractors and all persons supplying labor, materials, machinery, and equipment in the prosecution of the work provided for in the public works construction contract.
(11) "Performance bond" means a bond with good and sufficient surety or sureties for the faithful performance of the contract and to indemnify the governmental entity for any damages occasioned by a failure to perform the same within the prescribed time. Such bond shall be payable to, in favor of, and for the protection of the governmental entity for which the work is to be done.
(12) "Public works construction" means the building, altering, repairing, improving, or demolishing of any public structure or building or other public improvements of any kind to any public real property other than those projects covered by Chapter 4 of Title 32 or by Chapter 37 of Title 50. Such term does not include the routine operation, repair, or maintenance of existing structures, buildings, or real property, or any energy savings performance contract or any improvements or installations performed as part of an energy savings performance contract.
(13) "Responsible bidder" or "responsible offeror" means a person or entity that has the capability in all respects to perform fully and reliably the contract requirements.
(14) "Responsive bidder" or "responsive offeror" means a person or entity that has submitted a bid or proposal that conforms in all material respects to the requirements set forth in the invitation for bids or request for proposals.
(15) "Scope of project" means the work required by the original contract documents and any subsequent change orders required or appropriate to accomplish the intent of the project as described in the bid documents.
(16) "Scope of work" means the work that is required by the contract documents.
(17) "Sole source" means those procurements made pursuant to a written determination by a governing authority that there is only one source for the required supply, service, or construction item.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 556,§ 1, eff. 4/12/2012.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 342,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
Renumbered from § 36-91-1 by 2001 Ga. Laws 261, § 12, eff. 7/1/2001.
