# § 28-5-6. Powers, duties, and responsibilities of the Senate Budget and Evaluation Office and the House Budget and Research Office

(a) The Senate is authorized to establish and provide for a Senate Budget and Evaluation Office. The House of Representatives is authorized to establish and provide for a House Budget and Research Office.
(b) The director of the Senate Budget and Evaluation Office is authorized to request information and material from all state departments, boards, bureaus, commissions, committees, authorities, and agencies in connection with his or her duties; and all such departments, boards, bureaus, commissions, committees, authorities, and agencies are directed to furnish such information and material as the director shall request.
(c) The director of the House Budget and Research Office is authorized to request information and material from all state departments, boards, bureaus, commissions, committees, authorities, and agencies in connection with his or her duties; and all such departments, boards, bureaus, commissions, committees, authorities, and agencies are directed to furnish such information and material as the director shall request. All information and material received by the House Budget and Research Office under this subsection shall be made available to the chairpersons of the House Committee on Appropriations, the House Committee on Budget and Fiscal Affairs Oversight, and other officers of the House of Representatives as may be designated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and upon direction by such chairpersons and such other officers of the House as may be designated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the House Budget and Research Office shall request any needed information and material from any state department, board, bureau, commission, committee, authority, or agency.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 28, eff. 4/29/2014.
