# § 45-21-3. Preparation of rules

(a) With the approval of the board, the commissioner shall prepare rules necessary and appropriate for the proper administration of meritorious award programs, incentive compensation plans, and goal based compensation plans including rules governing the:
  (1) Operation of the meritorious awards programs, incentive compensation plans and goal based compensation plans;
  (2) Eligibility of employees to participate in the programs and plans;
  (3) Documentation of goal based plan criteria and evaluation metrics;
  (4) Method and schedule of incentive payment;
  (5) Type of suggestions or extraordinary service;
  (6) Method of submission of nominations or applications;
  (7) Procedure for review and approval;
  (8) Procedure for verifying qualification; and
  (9) Procedure for determining awards amounts.
(b) The rules for meritorious awards for extraordinary service under paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 45-21-2 shall provide for evaluation and award by the appointing authority. The rules for meritorious awards for suggestions and ideas shall comply with Code Sections 45-21-4 through 45-21-8.
(c) The commissioner shall submit the rules or any amendments thereto to the Governor. Such rules or amendments shall become effective when approved by the Governor or 15 days after they are submitted, if the Governor has not rejected them prior to that time.
(d) For appointing authorities of agencies subject to the rules of the board, meritorious awards programs, incentive compensation plans, and goal based plans shall become effective upon certification of an agency's program or plan by the commissioner and upon certification by the director of the Office of Planning and Budget that funding is available.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 753,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 213, § 1, eff. 4/26/2001.
