# § 45-21-2. Establishment of employees' suggestion and awards program; implementation

(a) The board may formulate, establish, and maintain employees' meritorious award programs, incentive compensation plans, and goal based plans to encourage state employees to improve the operation and perception of state government and its instrumentalities.
(b) The board may establish meritorious award programs for agencies for:
  (1) Employees who perform a special, extraordinary service, act, or achievement in the public interest, beyond the ordinary demands of duty, and in connection with or related to state government or its instrumentalities. Without limitation but as illustrations, when these criteria are satisfied such awards may be made for:
    (A) Heroism;
    (B) Response to an unanticipated problem or opportunity for the state employer;
    (C) Service or an act or achievement which particularly enhances public perception of state government; or
    (D) Innovative or unique success where other efforts have failed or where experts said a job could not be done; and
  (2) Employees whose suggestions or ideas are implemented by a state department or instrumentality. Appointing authorities of the legislative and judicial branches may also establish such meritorious award programs.
(c)
  (1) In providing for compensation, pay for performance, and performance management under Chapter 20 of this title, the board may provide for incentive compensation plans which authorize or direct incentive pay as follows:
    (A) A one-time payment to induce the employment of a prospective employee with particularly desirable skills or attributes;
    (B) A one-time payment for learning new, critically needed employment skills; and
    (C) A lump sum payment for employees who surpass performance expectations.
  (2) The board may impose requirements for periods of continued employment for incentive compensation plans. To receive consideration for incentive compensation for surpassing expectations under subparagraph (C) of paragraph (1) of this subsection, an employee must be in continued employment with the appointing authority or an appointing authority in the legislative, executive, or judicial branch at the time the compensation is paid.
  (3) Appointing authorities for which the board does not provide for compensation, pay for performance, and performance management under Chapter 20 of this title may also establish such incentive compensation plans. This authorization shall extend without limitation to the appointing authorities of the legislative and judicial branches, state authorities, and any executive branch agency which employed no classified employees as of July 1, 1996.
(d)
  (1) The board or other appointing authorities shall provide for goal based plans, based on predetermined and objectively measurable criteria, that enhance the effective operation of state agencies.
  (2) In providing for incentive pay for goal based plans, the board may provide for goal based plans which authorize or direct incentive pay for:
    (A) Meeting or exceeding predetermined productivity standards;
    (B) Meeting or exceeding predetermined sales targets; and
    (C) Generating income or revenue for the state beyond established goals.
  (3) Appointing authorities for which the board does not provide for compensation may also establish such goal based plans. This authorization shall extend without limitation to the appointing authorities of the legislative and judicial branches, state authorities, and any executive branch agency which employed no classified employees as of July 1, 1996.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 753,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2006.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 45, eff. 4/18/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 213, §1, eff. 4/26/2001.
