# § 45-21-7. Awards to employees

(a)
  (1) Cash awards for suggestions or ideas submitted by an employee, implemented by an agency, and approved by the board which result in direct measurable cash savings or cost avoidance shall be paid to such employee in an amount equal to up to 10 percent of the first year's estimated net material and labor savings. The award shall be paid by the agency or agencies adopting the suggestion and shall be made within the fiscal year the suggestion or idea is authorized for payment. Cash awards shall be for not less than $10.00 and for not more than $5,000.00 regardless of the number of agencies adopting the suggestion.
  (2) Suggestions involving improvements in working conditions; changes in procedures; revision of forms; improvement in employee morale, health, or safety; or related improvements for which the monetary value cannot be determined shall be eligible for award certificates or cash awards based on intangible savings.
  (3) The board shall establish a method of evaluating such suggestions. Cash awards for suggestions involving intangible savings shall not exceed $100.00.
(b) In recognition of achievements under meritorious award programs, incentive compensation plans, goal based plans, or other employee achievement, the board and other appointing authorities may award:
  (1) Certificates of merit;
  (2) Certificates acknowledging period of service; or
  (3) Pins, buttons, or other emblems.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 753,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 213, § 1, eff. 4/26/2001.
