# § 43-29-7. License requirement; qualifications of applicants; subjects to be tested on examination; issuance and display of license

(a) Any person wishing to obtain the right to practice the trade or occupation of dispensing optician, as defined in this chapter, shall, before it shall be lawful for him or her to do so in this state, make application to the board, upon such form and in such manner as shall be adopted and prescribed by the board, and obtain a license from the board. Unless such person shall have obtained a license as provided in this subsection, it shall be unlawful for him or her to practice the trade or occupation of dispensing optician in this state; and he or she shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in Code Section 43-29-21.
(b) The board shall admit to examination any candidate who pays the fee provided for in this chapter and submits evidence satisfactory to the board, verified on oath, that:
  (1) The applicant is over 18 years of age;
  (2) The applicant has completed a high school education or its equivalent, as defined by the State Board of Education;
  (3) The applicant is of good moral character; and
  (4) The applicant has satisfactorily completed one school year of not less than an 850 hour course of study in a recognized school of optical dispensing or has had practical training and experience of a grade and character satisfactory to the board for not less than two years under the supervision of a licensed dispensing optician, a licensed physician, or a licensed optometrist, provided that any time spent in a recognized school shall be considered as part of the apprenticeship period. The practical training and experience required under this paragraph for an apprenticeship shall include, at a minimum, 3,000 hours of experience engaged in apprenticeship functions and shall include instruction in ophthalmic optics, optical laboratory materials and techniques, eye anatomy and physiology, related laws and regulations, ophthalmic dispensing theory and application, and basic contact lens theory. Prior to beginning an apprenticeship, the applicant shall register with the board. The registration shall identify the supervising licensed physician, licensed optometrist, or licensed dispensing optician and the mailing address and telephone number of the primary location where the apprenticeship training shall occur; provided, however, that in addition to the primary location, such training may be furnished at other locations under proper supervision. The board shall develop a list of textbooks and instructional materials to guide the apprentice and supervisors in providing the appropriate apprenticeship instruction. Upon completion by the applicant, such training and experience shall be certified by the supervising licensed dispensing optician, licensed physician, or licensed optometrist to the board.
(c) Applicants who have received practical training and experience in the trade or occupation of dispensing optician prior to July 1, 2008, shall receive credit toward the practical training and experience requirements of paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of this Code section if they register with the board in accordance with the provisions of said paragraph no later than August 31, 2008.
(d) Applicants may also meet the educational requirements of this Code section by receiving a certificate from recognized schools of opticianry with the Technical College System of Georgia or formal home study programs through the Career Progression Program with the National Academy of Opticianry or other programs approved by the board.
(e) Applicants for examination may be examined upon matters pertaining to mathematics and physics, ophthalmic materials and laboratory technique, ophthalmic optics, ophthalmic dispensing, and practical subjects. When any applicant passes the necessary examination and meets the qualifications set out, the board shall issue a license to such person to practice the trade or occupation of dispensing optician.
(f) Such license shall be conspicuously displayed in the office or place of business of the dispensing optician; and it shall not be necessary to remove the same so long as such dispensing optician continues to practice his or her trade or occupation in this state and so long as the license is not revoked or suspended by the board.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 32, eff. 5/20/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 412,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
