# § 43-29-3. State Board of Dispensing Opticians; members; election of officers; meetings; powers and duties

(a) There is created the State Board of Dispensing Opticians, which board shall supervise the practice of dispensing opticians and enforce this chapter, which board shall be composed of five licensed dispensing opticians, each of whom shall be a resident of the state who has been engaged in the occupation of dispensing optician in the state for not less than five years preceding the time of his appointment, and one additional member who shall have no connection whatsoever with the trade or occupation of dispensing optician.
(b) The members of the board shall be appointed by the Governor, and each such appointee shall hold office for a period of four years or until his successor is appointed and qualified.
(c) The Governor is also authorized to fill vacancies that may occur from time to time on said board with persons duly qualified.
(d) The board shall select from among its own number a chairman and a vice-chairman, shall adopt rules and regulations governing the examination of applicants and the enforcement of this chapter, and shall establish a code of ethics and standards of practice for dispensing opticians and such other rules and regulations governing procedure as shall be necessary and proper for the carrying out of the objectives of this chapter.
(e) The board shall provide for meetings at least twice each year for the purpose of receiving applications and giving examinations as above provided and may meet at other times and at such places as the board shall designate from time to time or fix by regulations.
(f) The board may administer oaths, summon witnesses, and take testimony in all matters relating to its duties.
(g) The board shall issue a license to practice the trade or occupation of dispensing optician to all persons who shall furnish satisfactory evidence of attainments and qualifications under this chapter and the rules and regulations of the board. Such license shall be signed by the chairman and attested by the division director, and it shall give the person to whom it is issued the absolute authority to practice the trade or occupation of dispensing optician in this state.
(h) Each member of the board shall be reimbursed as provided in subsection (f) of Code Section 43-1-2.
