# § 43-29-11. Continuing education requirement; waiver; effect of failure to complete required course hours

(a) Each person who holds a license as a dispensing optician shall be required to complete ten hours of continuing education prior to each renewal of such license.
(b) With his or her application for license renewal, each licensed dispensing optician shall submit an affidavit of course hours completed as proof that his or her education requirements have been satisfied. The board shall give credit for any course given by any recognized national, regional, or state dispensing society or association if such course increases the education of a dispensing optician and is made available to all licensed opticians on a reasonably nondiscriminatory fee basis. The board may also approve, in accordance with the objectives of this chapter, other courses held within or outside of this state which are available to all persons on a reasonably nondiscriminatory fee basis. Any group of ten or more licensed opticians may arrange for an educational course and request board approval thereof. Any such request shall be made at least 90 days prior to the proposed date of the course and shall include full details as to the contents of the course, the instructors, and the charge to be made for attendance, as well as any other information which the board may require. The board shall endeavor to act upon any request for approval at least 45 days prior to the proposed date therefor and shall thereupon notify all licensed opticians of the time, place, contents, and charges for any such approved course. The certificate of attendance required under this Code section shall be issued to the optician upon completion of the approved course. Credit shall be allowed on the basis of an hour for an hour. To receive one hour of credit, one must attend one full hour. No fractional hour credits shall be allowed.
(c) The board may waive the requirements of this Code section for any license period for any dispensing optician upon proof of such optician's hardship or disability, provided that such optician's license may be revoked upon failure of the licensee to complete the required number of hours, not to exceed 20 hours, of continuing education within 12 months immediately following renewal.
(d) A dispensing optician failing to complete the course hours required under this Code section shall have his or her license restored upon proof of subsequent completion of required course hours and, except in the case of a waiver granted under subsection (c) of this Code section, upon payment of a penalty fee in an amount established by the board.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 34, eff. 5/20/2010.
