# § 35-6A-17. [Repealed Effective 12/31/2030] Georgia Motor Vehicle Crime Prevention Advisory Board; membership; termination

(a) There is established the Georgia Motor Vehicle Crime Prevention Advisory Board which shall be composed of:
  (1) The director of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation or his or her designee from within the Georgia Bureau of Investigation;
  (2) The state revenue commissioner or his or her designee from within the Department of Revenue;
  (3) The Commissioner of Insurance or his or her designee from within the Department of Insurance;
  (4) The Attorney General of Georgia or his or her designee from within the Office of the Attorney General;
  (5) A member of the Georgia State Patrol;
  (6) A representative from an insurance company authorized to issue motor vehicle coverage in this state;
  (7) A licensed new or used motor vehicle dealer;
  (8) A licensed used motor vehicle parts dealer;
  (9) A registered secondary metals recycler; and
  (10) One representative from each of the following:
    (A) A judge of a superior court in Georgia;
    (B) The Georgia Association of Chiefs of Police;
    (C) The Georgia Sheriffs' Association;
    (D) The District Attorneys Association of Georgia;
    (E) The National Insurance Crime Bureau;
    (F) The Georgia Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers;
    (G) The motor vehicle rental industry; and
    (H) A consumer protection group.
(b) The Governor shall appoint those members listed in paragraphs (5) through (10) of subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Members of the Georgia Motor Vehicle Crime Prevention Advisory Board shall serve for terms of four years. The advisory board shall elect a chairperson from among its membership and may elect such other officers and committees as it considers appropriate. In the event of death, resignation, disqualification, or removal for any reason of any member of the advisory board, vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment and successors shall serve for the unexpired term. Membership on the advisory board shall not constitute public office, and no member shall be disqualified from holding public office by reason of his or her membership on the advisory board.
(d) Citizen members of the Georgia Motor Vehicle Crime Prevention Advisory Board shall receive a daily expense allowance in the amount specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21, as well as the mileage or transportation allowance authorized for state employees. Members of the advisory board who are state officials or state employees shall receive no compensation for their services on the advisory board but shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as members of the advisory board in the same manner as they are reimbursed for expenses in their capacities as state officials or state employees. The funds necessary for the reimbursement of the expenses of state officials and state employees shall come from funds appropriated or otherwise available to their respective departments.
(e) The Georgia Motor Vehicle Crime Prevention Advisory Board shall solicit and review applications for grants authorized pursuant to Code Section 35-6A-15 and make recommendations to the council for the award thereof.
(f) This Code section shall stand repealed on December 31, 2030.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 32,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
