# § 35-6A-7. Functions and authority of council

(1) To cooperate with and secure cooperation of every department, agency, or instrumentality in the state government or its political subdivisions in the furtherance of the purposes of this chapter;
(2) To prepare, publish in print or electronically, and disseminate fundamental criminal justice information of a descriptive and analytical nature to all components of the criminal justice system of this state, including law enforcement agencies, the courts, juvenile justice agencies, and correctional agencies;
(3) To serve as the state-wide clearing-house for criminal justice information and research;
(4) To maintain a research program in order to identify and define significant criminal justice problems and issues and effective solutions and to publish in print or electronically special reports as needed;
(5) In coordination and cooperation with all components of the criminal justice system of this state, to develop criminal justice legislative proposals and executive policy proposals reflective of the priorities of the entire criminal justice system of this state;
(6) To serve in an advisory capacity to the Governor on issues impacting the criminal justice system of this state;
(7) To coordinate high visibility criminal justice research projects and studies which cross traditional system component lines with a state-wide impact;
(8) To convene periodically state-wide criminal justice conferences involving key executives in the criminal justice system of this state and elected officials for the purpose of developing, prioritizing, and publicizing a policy agenda for the criminal justice system of this state;
(9) To provide for the interaction, communication, and coordination of all components of the criminal justice system of this state for the purpose of improving this state's response to crime and its effects;
(10) To administer gifts, grants, and donations for the purpose of carrying out this chapter;
(11) To promulgate rules governing the approval of victim assistance programs as provided for in Article 8 of Chapter 21 of Title 15;
(12) To supervise the preparation, administration, and implementation of the three-year juvenile justice plan as provided by this chapter; and
(13) To do any and all things necessary and proper to enable it to perform wholly and adequately its duties and to exercise the authority granted to it.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 35, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 132,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 622,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
