# § 35-6A-11. Juvenile justice advisory board; membership

(a) There is established a juvenile justice advisory board to the council which shall consist of at least 15 and not more than 33 members appointed by the Governor who have training, experience, or special knowledge concerning the prevention and treatment of juvenile delinquency, the administration of juvenile justice, or the reduction of juvenile delinquency and shall be composed of:
  (1) At least three members of the council, two of whom are not full-time government employees or elected officials;
  (2) At least one locally elected official representing general purpose local government;
  (3) Representatives of law enforcement and juvenile justice agencies, including juvenile and family court judges, prosecuting attorneys, attorneys for children and youth, and probation workers;
  (4) Representatives of public agencies concerned with delinquency prevention or treatment, such as welfare, social services, mental health, education, special education, recreation, and youth services;
  (5) Representatives of private nonprofit organizations, including individuals with a special focus on preserving and strengthening families, parent groups and parent self-help groups, youth development, delinquency prevention and treatment, neglected or dependent children, the quality of juvenile justice, education, and social services for children;
  (6) Volunteers who work with delinquent children or potential delinquent children;
  (7) Representatives of programs that are alternatives to incarceration, including programs providing organized recreation activities;
  (8) Individuals with special experience and competence in addressing problems related to school violence and vandalism and alternatives to suspension and expulsion; and
  (9) Persons, licensed or certified by the applicable state, with expertise and competence in preventing and addressing mental health and substance abuse issues in delinquent youth and youth at risk of delinquency; and
  (10) Representatives of victim or witness advocacy groups, including at least one individual with expertise in addressing the challenges of sexual abuse and exploitation and trauma, particularly the needs of youth who experience disproportionate levels of sexual abuse, exploitation, and trauma before entering the juvenile justice system.
(b)
  (1) A majority of the members of the advisory board, including the chairperson, shall not be full-time employees of the federal, state, or local government.
  (2) At least one-fifth of the members of the advisory board shall be under 28 years of age at the time of their appointment.
  (3) At least three members shall have been or shall currently be under the jurisdiction of the juvenile justice system of this state or, if not feasible and in appropriate circumstances, shall be a parent or guardian of a person who has been or is currently under the jurisdiction of the juvenile justice system.
(c) Membership on the advisory board shall not constitute public office and no member shall be disqualified from holding public office by reason of his or her membership.
(d) The advisory board shall elect a chairperson from among its membership who must also be a member of the council. The advisory board may elect such other officers and committees as it considers appropriate.
(e) Members of the advisory board shall serve without compensation, although each member of the advisory board shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties from funds available to the office. Such reimbursement shall be limited to all travel and other expenses necessarily incurred through service on the advisory board, in compliance with this state's travel rules and regulations. However, in no case shall a member of the advisory board be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the member's capacity as the representative of another state agency.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 32,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 783,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 132,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
