# § 33-22-13. Procedure for cancellation of insurance contract upon default

(a) When a premium finance agreement contains a power of attorney enabling the premium finance company to cancel any insurance contract or contracts listed in the agreement, the insurance contract or contracts shall not be canceled by the premium finance company unless the cancellation is effectuated in accordance with this Code section.
(b) Not less than ten days' written notice shall be delivered to the insured or sent by electronic means or mailed to the insured at his or her address shown in the agreement of the intent of the premium finance company to cancel the insurance contract unless the default is cured within such ten-day period. A copy of said notice shall also be sent to the insurance agent or insurance broker indicated on the premium finance agreement.
(c)
  (1) After expiration of such ten-day period, the premium finance company may thereafter in the name of the insured cancel such insurance contract or contracts by mailing or delivering to the insurer a notice of cancellation; and the insurance contract shall be canceled as if the notice of cancellation had been submitted by the insured, but without requiring the return of the insurance contract or contracts. The premium finance company, when mailing or delivering notice to the insurance company to cancel the policy, shall mail notice to the insured notifying him or her of the action taken. Such notice to the insured shall contain the date and time the policy is to be canceled, which date shall be after the date of mailing of such notice, and shall inform the insured that any payment received after the mailing or delivery of notice to the insurance company to cancel the policy will not reinstate the policy. The notice may contain information to the effect that the premium finance company will make a request to the insurance company to reinstate the policy. Language sufficiently clear and specific so that a person of average intelligence can understand the action being taken by the premium finance company shall be used. The notice to the insured required by this subsection shall be delivered as provided in subsection (d) of Code Section 33-24-14 or mailed to the last address of record of the insured and shall be dispatched by at least first-class mail and receiving the receipt provided by the United States Postal Service or such other evidence of mailing as prescribed or accepted by the United States Postal Service.
  (2) The receipt of the notice of cancellation provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection by the insurer shall create a conclusive presumption that the premium finance company has fully complied with all the requirements of this Code section, that the insurer is entitled to rely on such presumption, and that the cancellation of the insurance contract or contracts is concurred in and authorized by the insured. No liability of any nature whatsoever shall be imposed upon the insurer as a result of the failure by the insured to receive the notice of the action taken required by paragraph (1) of this subsection or as a result of the failure of the insurance premium finance company to comply with any of the requirements of this Code section.
(d) All statutory, regulatory, and contractual restrictions providing that the insurance contract may not be canceled unless notice is given to a governmental agency, mortgagee, or other third party shall apply where cancellation is effected under this Code section. The insurer shall give the prescribed notice on behalf of itself or the insured to any governmental agency, mortgagee, or other third party on or before the second business day after the day it receives the notice of cancellation from the premium finance company and shall determine the effective date of cancellation taking into consideration the number of days required to complete the cancellation.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 659,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 940, § 7, eff. 7/1/2002.
