# § 19-8-17. Report and findings of investigating agent; dismissal of petition; appointment of guardian ad litem

(a) The report and findings of the investigating agent appointed by the court pursuant to Code Section 19-8-16 shall include, among other things, the following:
  (1) Verification of allegations contained in the petition for adoption;
  (2) Circumstances under which the child came to be placed for adoption;
  (3) Whether each prospective adoptive parent is financially, physically, and mentally able to have the permanent custody of the child; in considering financial ability any adoption supplement approved by the department shall be taken into account;
  (4) The physical and mental condition of the child, insofar as this can be determined by the aid of competent medical authority;
  (5) Whether or not the adoption is in the best interests of the child, including his or her general care;
  (6) Suitability of the home to the child;
  (7) If applicable, whether the identity and location of a biological father who is not a legal father are known or ascertainable and whether the requirements of Code Section 19-8-12 were complied with;
  (8) Any other information that might be disclosed by the investigation that in the agent's opinion would be of value or interest to the court in deciding the case; and
  (9) Any other information that might be disclosed by the investigation in response to any specific issue that the court requested be investigated in its order appointing such agent.
(b) If the report of the investigating agent disapproves of the adoption of the child, motion may be made by the investigating agent to the court to dismiss the petition for adoption and the court after hearing such motion shall be authorized to dismiss such petition. If the court denies the motion to dismiss, the court shall appoint a guardian ad litem who may appeal the ruling to the Court of Appeals or Supreme Court, as in other cases, as provided by law.
(c) If at any time it appears to the court that the interests of the child may conflict with those of any petitioner, the court may, in its discretion, appoint a guardian ad litem to represent the child and the cost thereof shall be a charge upon the funds of the county.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 285,§ 1-1, eff. 9/1/2018.
