# § 43-28-9. Qualifications of license applicants; waiver

(a) An applicant applying for a license as an occupational therapist or as an occupational therapy assistant shall file an application, on forms provided by the board, showing to the satisfaction of the board that such applicant:
  (1) Is of good moral character;
  (2) Has successfully completed the academic requirements of an accredited educational program in occupational therapy recognized by the board, with concentration in biological or physical science, psychology, and sociology and with education in selected manual skills. For an occupational therapist or occupational therapy assistant, such a program shall be accredited by a recognized accrediting agency acceptable to the board. Other comparable educational programs such as those approved by the World Federation of Occupational Therapists may be recognized by the board upon evaluation of detailed program and course content. An applicant who is foreign trained shall complete an academic program that is recognized or approved by the World Federation of Occupational Therapists or such other credentialing entity recognized by the board;
  (3) Has successfully completed a period of supervised field work experience approved by the board;
  (4) Has passed an examination approved by the board as provided for in Code Section 43-28-10; and
  (5) Has satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for the issuance of a license under this Code section shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. Such applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check.
(b) An applicant not meeting the requirements of subsection (a) of this Code section must indicate to the board that he or she has obtained a waiver of such requirements pursuant to Code Section 43-28-11.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 286,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 246,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 31, eff. 5/20/2010.
