# § 43-28-6. General powers and duties of board; continuing professional education; background checks

(a) The board shall administer, coordinate, and enforce this article.
(b) The board shall adopt rules and regulations to carry out the policy of this article, including, but not limited to, rules and regulations relating to professional licensure and the establishment of ethical standards of practice.
(c) The board shall have the responsibility of evaluating and determining the qualifications of occupational therapist and occupational therapy assistant applicants for licensure under this article and shall assist the division director in carrying out this article.
(d) In a timely manner, the board shall:
  (1) Authorize the issuance and renewal of licenses to qualified occupational therapists and occupational therapy assistants; and
  (2) Discipline and sanction licensees.
(e) The division director shall have the authority to contract with an outside agency for services providing for the supervision and administration of the examination as needed.
(f) The board may initiate investigations, issue subpoenas, examine witnesses, and administer oaths and may investigate allegations of practices violating this article and board rules. For purposes of this subsection, an authorized agent of the board shall have the power and right to enter and make reasonable inspection of any place where occupational therapy is practiced.
(g) The board may provide for the continuing professional education of persons subject to this article by appropriate regulation.
(h) The board shall administer the Occupational Therapy Licensure Compact contained in Article 2 of this chapter.
(i) The board is authorized to conduct national background checks by the submission of fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation through the Georgia Crime Information Center; provided, however, that reports from such background checks shall not be shared with entities outside the state.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 286,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 246,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 70, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, §; 43, eff. 4/18/2002.
