# § 43-28-12. Issuance of license; fees; limited permits; use of titles and abbreviations

(a) The board shall issue a license to any person who meets the requirements of this article upon payment of the license fee prescribed.
(b) The board shall issue a limited permit to persons who have completed the academic education and fieldwork experience requirements contained in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 43-28-9. Such permit shall allow the person to practice occupational therapy under the supervision of an occupational therapist who holds a current license in this state and shall be valid until the expiration date of the limited permit or the applicant has passed or failed the examination for licensure. An applicant who is working under a limited permit and fails the examination shall immediately surrender his or her limited permit. A limited permit shall not be renewed if the applicant has failed the examination.
(c) The board may issue a limited permit to persons who have successfully completed a certification examination approved by the board. This permit shall allow the person to practice occupational therapy for a period not to exceed 90 days under the supervision of an occupational therapist who holds a current license in this state.
(d)
  (1) A licensed occupational therapist may use the words "occupational therapist" or "licensed occupational therapist" or any words, title, letters, or other appropriate designation, including "O.T." and "O.T./L.", that identifies such person as a licensed occupational therapist, in connection with the name or place of business, and any activity, practice, or service, so long as the licensee is at all times in compliance with the requirements of this article when providing occupational therapy services.
  (2) A licensed occupational therapist who possesses a national certification from the National Board for Certification of Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) may also use the designation "O.T.R." or "O.T.R./L.".
(e)
  (1) A licensed occupational therapy assistant may use the words "occupational therapy assistant," "licensed occupational therapy assistant," or any word, title, letters, or other appropriate designation, including "O.T.A." or "L.O.T.A.," that identifies such person as a licensed occupational therapy assistant, in connection with the name or place of business, and any activity, practice or service, so long as the licensee is at all times in compliance with the requirements of this article when providing occupational therapy services.
  (2) A licensed occupational therapy assistant who possesses a national certification from the National Board for Certification of Occupational Therapy (NBCOT) may also use the designation "C.O.T.A.," or "C.O.T.A./L.".

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 43, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 246,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
