# § 43-28-14. Renewal or reinstatement of expired licenses; renewal of suspended licenses

(a) All licenses shall expire biennially. Each person licensed under this article is responsible for renewing his or her license before the expiration date. Application for renewal shall be completed in the manner prescribed in the rules and regulations of the division director and shall include the payment of a renewal fee. The board may set and require a specific number of continuing education hours for license renewal.
(b) The board may provide for late renewal of a license upon payment of a late renewal fee, proof of continuing education as set by the board, and completion of an appropriate form. Any license which is not renewed during the specified renewal period will be revoked for failure to renew. The holder of such a canceled license may apply for and obtain a valid license only upon compliance with all relevant requirements for reinstatement.
(c) A suspended license is subject to expiration and may be renewed as provided in this Code section, but such renewal shall not entitle the licensee, while the license remains suspended and until it is reinstated, to engage in the licensed activity or in other conduct or activity in violation of the order or judgment by which the license was suspended. If a license revoked on disciplinary grounds is reinstated, the licensee, as a condition of reinstatement, shall pay the renewal fee and any late fee that may be applicable.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 246,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
