# § 43-28-4. State Board of Occupational Therapy; members

(a) There is established the State Board of Occupational Therapy.
(b) The board shall consist of six members who shall each be appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate for a term of four years and until a successor is appointed and qualified.
(c) The members of the board shall be citizens of the United States and residents of this state for at least one year prior to their appointment.
(d)
  (1) Five members of the board shall have been engaged in rendering services to the public, teaching, or research in occupational therapy for at least three years immediately preceding their appointment and may be occupational therapists or occupational therapy assistants and shall at all times be holders of valid licenses for the practice of occupational therapy in this state. All of such members shall fulfill the requirements for licensure of this article.
  (2) The sixth member shall be appointed from the public at large and shall have no connection whatsoever with the profession or practice of occupational therapy.
(e) At the expiration of a term, a board member shall be appointed in the same manner as the initial appointment; but no person shall be appointed to serve more than two consecutive terms. Terms shall begin on the first day of the calendar year and end on the last day of the calendar year or until successors are appointed.
(f) When a vacancy occurs on the board, the Governor shall appoint a member to fill the unexpired term.
(g) The Governor, after notice and opportunity for hearing by the board, may remove any member of the board for neglect of duty, incompetence, revocation or suspension of his or her license, or other dishonorable conduct. After such removal or vacancy due to other reasons, the Governor shall appoint a successor to the unexpired term.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 246,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
