# § 31-2A-1. Creation of Board of Public Health; powers, duties, and functions of Board of Community Health transferred to the Board of Public Health; board composition and terms; vacancies, removal; chairperson; reimbursement of expenses

(a) There is created the Board of Public Health which shall establish the general policy to be followed by the Department of Public Health. The powers, functions, and duties of the Board of Community Health as they existed on June 30, 2011, with regard to the Division of Public Health and the Office of Health Improvement, unless otherwise provided in this Act, are transferred to the Board of Public Health effective July 1, 2011. The board shall consist of nine members appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate.
(b) The Governor shall designate the initial terms of the members of the board as follows: three members shall be appointed for one year; three members shall be appointed for two years; and three members shall be appointed for three years. Thereafter, all succeeding appointments shall be for three-year terms from the expiration of the previous term.
(c) Vacancies in office shall be filled by appointment by the Governor in the same manner as the appointment to the position on the board which becomes vacant. An appointment to fill a vacancy other than by expiration of a term of office shall be for the balance of the unexpired term.
(d) Members of the board may be removed from office under the same conditions for removal from office of members of professional licensing boards provided in Code Section 43-1-17.
(e) There shall be a chairperson of the board elected by and from the membership of the board who shall be the presiding officer of the board.
(f) The members of the board shall receive the same daily expense allowance and reimbursement of expenses as provided in Code Section 45-7-21 for members of other state boards.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2011.
