# § 31-2A-3. Department of Public Health successor to certain rules, regulations, policies, procedures, administrative orders, rights, interests, and obligations of Department of Community Health

(a) The Department of Public Health shall succeed to all rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and administrative orders of the Department of Community Health that are in effect on June 30, 2011, or scheduled to go into effect on or after July 1, 2011, and which relate to the functions transferred to the Department of Public Health pursuant to Code Section 31-2A-2 and shall further succeed to any rights, privileges, entitlements, obligations, and duties of the Department of Community Health that are in effect on June 30, 2011, which relate to the functions transferred to the Department of Public Health pursuant to Code Section 31-2A-2. Such rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and administrative orders shall remain in effect until amended, repealed, superseded, or nullified by the Department of Public Health by proper authority or as otherwise provided by law.
(b) The rights, privileges, entitlements, and duties of parties to contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions as identified by the Office of Planning and Budget entered into before July 1, 2011, by the Department of Community Health which relate to the functions transferred to the Department of Public Health pursuant to Code Section 31-2A-2 shall continue to exist; and none of these rights, privileges, entitlements, and duties are impaired or diminished by reason of the transfer of the functions to the Department of Public Health. In all such instances, the Department of Public Health shall be substituted for the Department of Community Health, and the Department of Public Health shall succeed to the rights and duties under such contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions.
(c) All persons employed by the Department of Community Health in capacities which relate to the functions transferred to the Department of Public Health pursuant to Code Section 31-2A-2 on June 30, 2011, shall, on July 1, 2011, become employees of the Department of Public Health in similar capacities, as determined by the commissioner of public health. Such employees shall be subject to the employment practices and policies of the Department of Public Health on and after July 1, 2011, but the compensation and benefits of such transferred employees shall not be reduced as a result of such transfer. Employees who are subject to the rules of the State Personnel Board and who are transferred to the department shall retain all existing rights under such rules. Accrued annual and sick leave possessed by the transferred employees on June 30, 2011, shall be retained by such employees as employees of the Department of Public Health.
(d) On July 1, 2011, the Department of Public Health shall receive custody of the state owned real property in the custody of the Department of Community Health on June 30, 2011, and which pertains to the functions transferred to the Department of Public Health pursuant to Code Section 31-2A-2.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-34, eff. 7/1/2012.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2011.
