# § 31-2A-8. Department as agency of state for receipt and administration of federal and other funds

(1) Provide, extend, and improve maternal and child health services;
(2) Locate children already disabled or suffering from conditions leading to a disability and provide for such children medical, surgical, corrective, and other services and to provide for facilities for diagnosis, hospitalization, and aftercare;
(3) Advance the prevention and control of cancer and of sexually transmitted, tubercular, and other diseases;
(4) Forestall and correct conditions that, if left to run their course, could be injurious to health;
(5) Conduct programs which lie within the scope and the power of the department relating to industrial hygiene, control of ionizing radiation, occupational health, water quality, water pollution control, and planning and development of water resources;
(6) Administer grants-in-aid to assist in the construction of publicly owned and operated general and special medical facilities;
(7) Conduct programs:
  (A) Relating to chronic illness;
  (B) Relating to the dental and oral health of the people of this state which are appropriate to the purpose of the department; and
  (C) Relating to the physical health of the people of this state which are appropriate to the purpose of the department; and
(8) Develop the health aspects of emergency preparedness and emergency response. When a plan is required to be approved by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the federal government as condition precedent to the making of grants for health purposes, the department, as agent of this state, is directed to formulate, submit, and secure approval of that plan and thereafter, upon its approval and the receipt of funds payable thereunder, to carry the plan into effect in accordance with its terms, applying thereto the funds so received as well as other applicable amounts from whatever source.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 388,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2020.
Renumbered from § 31-2-7 and amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
