# § 31-2A-11. Standards for sewage management systems

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Chamber system" means a system of chambers with each chamber being a molded polyolefin plastic, arch shaped, hollow structure with an exposed bottom area and solid top and louvered sidewall for infiltration of effluent into adjoining bottom and sidewall soil areas. Chambers may be of different sizes and configurations to obtain desired surface areas.
  (2) "Conventional system" means a system traditionally used composed of perforated pipe surrounded by gravel or stone masking for the infiltration of effluent into adjoining bottom and side soil areas.
  (3) "On-site sewage management system" means a sewage management system other than a public or community sewage treatment system serving one or more buildings, mobile homes, recreational vehicles, residences, or other facilities designed or used for human occupancy or congregation. Such term shall include, without limitation, conventional and chamber septic tank systems, privies, and experimental and alternative on-site sewage management systems which are designed to be physically incapable of a surface discharge of effluent that may be approved by the department.
  (4) "Prior approved system" means only a chamber system or conventional system or component of such system which is designed to be physically incapable of a surface discharge of effluent and which was properly approved pursuant to subparagraph (a)(2)(B) of this Code section, as such Code section became law on April 19, 1994, for use according to manufacturers' recommendations, prior to April 14, 1997.
  (5) "Unsatisfactory service" means documented substandard performance as compared to other approved systems or components.
(b) The department shall have the authority as it deems necessary and proper to adopt state-wide regulations for on-site sewage management systems, including but not limited to experimental and alternative systems. The department is authorized to require that any such on-site sewage management system be examined and approved prior to allowing the use of such system in the state; provided, however, that any prior approved system shall continue to be approved for installation in every county of the state pursuant to the manufacturer's recommendations, including sizing of no less than 50 percent of trench length of a conventional system designed for equal flows in similar soil conditions. Upon written request of one-half or more of the health districts in the state, the department is authorized to require the reexamination of any such system or component thereof, provided that documentation is submitted indicating unsatisfactory service of such system or component thereof. Before any such examination or reexamination, the department may require the person, persons, or organization manufacturing or marketing the system to reimburse the department or its agent for the reasonable expenses of such examination.
(c)
  (1) This subsection shall not be construed to prohibit the governing authority of any county or municipality in the state from adopting and enforcing codes at the local level; provided, however, that no county, municipality, or state agency may require any certified septic tank installer or certified septic tank pumper who has executed and deposited a bond as authorized in paragraph (2) of this subsection to give or furnish or execute any code compliance bond or similar bond for the purpose of ensuring that all construction, installation, or modifications are made or completed in compliance with the county or municipal ordinances or building and construction codes.
  (2) In order to protect the public from damages arising from any work by a certified septic tank installer or certified septic tank pumper that fails to comply with any state construction codes or with the ordinances or building and construction codes adopted by any county or municipal corporation, any such certified septic tank installer or certified septic tank pumper may execute and deposit with the judge of the probate court in the county of his or her principal place of business a bond in the sum of $10,000.00. Such bond shall be a cash bond of $10,000.00 or executed by a surety authorized and qualified to write surety bonds in the State of Georgia and shall be approved by the local county or municipal health department. Such bond shall be conditioned upon all work done or supervised by such certificate holder complying with the provisions of any state construction codes or any ordinances or building and construction codes of any county or municipal corporation wherein the work is performed. Action on such bond may be brought against the principal and surety thereon in the name of and for the benefit of any person who suffers damages as a consequence of said certificate holder's work not conforming to the requirements of any ordinances or building and construction codes; provided, however, that the aggregate liability of the surety to all persons so damaged shall in no event exceed the sum of such bond.
  (3) In any case where a bond is required under this subsection, the certified septic tank installer or certified septic tank pumper shall file a copy of the bond with the county or municipal health department in the political subdivision wherein the work is being performed.
  (4) The provisions of this subsection shall not apply to or affect any bonding requirements involving contracts for public works as provided in Chapter 10 of Title 13.
(d) This Code section does not restrict the work of a plumber licensed by the State Construction Industry Licensing Board to access any on-site sewage management system for the purpose of servicing or repairing any plumbing system or connection to the on-site sewage management system.

## History

Renumbered from § 31-2-12 and amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
