# § 31-2A-12. [Repealed Effective 7/1/2026] Georgia Commission on Maternal and Infant Health; composition, membership, duties, and responsibilities

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "perinatal care" means maternal and infant health improvement services and ancillary services that are appropriate for women and infants during the perinatal period, which begins before conception and ends on the infant's first birthday.
(b) There is created the Georgia Commission on Maternal and Infant Health to be assigned to the Department of Public Health for administrative purposes only as prescribed in Code Section 50-4-3. The commission shall consist of 14 members, who shall be appointed as follows:
  (1) Six members shall be appointed by the Governor. The Governor shall include among his or her appointees an obstetrician, either a pediatrician or neonatologist, a nurse midwife, either a family practice or general practice physician, and a representative of a perinatal facility;
  (2) Three members of the Senate shall be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor, provided that at least one member shall be of the minority party; and
  (3) Three members of the House of Representatives shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, provided that at least one member shall be of the minority party. The commissioner or his or her designee and the chief executive officer of the Georgia Research Alliance or his or her designee shall serve as members of the commission. The Governor shall appoint one member to serve as the chairperson of the commission.
(c) Members of the commission shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be allowed actual and necessary expenses in the performance of their duties. Any legislative members of the council shall receive the allowances provided for in Code Section 28-1-8. Citizen members shall be entitled to receive reimbursement for per diem and travel expenses as provided in Code Section 45-7-21.
(d) The commission shall meet at least four times per year at the call of the chairperson or upon the request of at least seven of its members.
(e) The commission shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
  (1) To solicit the views of perinatal facilities, healthcare providers, and related professional associations on the state of perinatal care in Georgia and give due consideration to the current recommendations of medical and scientific organizations in the field of perinatal care;
  (2) To make policy recommendations regarding programs of perinatal care with local communities, their physicians and perinatal facilities, and the general public;
  (3) To establish indices to measure the quality and determine the effectiveness of perinatal care in Georgia;
  (4) To make available to the public the records of all meetings of the commission and all business transacted by the commission;
  (5) To employ such staff and to enter into such contracts as may be necessary to fulfill its duties and responsibilities under this chapter subject to funding by the General Assembly;
  (6) To consult with and advise the department on matters related to the establishment, maintenance, operation, and outcomes evaluation of perinatal care initiatives in this state; and
  (7) To make state-wide policy recommendations based on its findings.
(f) The commission may request additional funding from any additional source including, but not limited to, federal and private grants.
(g) No later than June 30, 2026, the commission shall submit a detailed written report on its findings and recommendations to the Governor and the General Assembly.
(h) This Code section shall stand automatically repealed on July 1, 2026.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 471,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 699,§ 1B, eff. 5/1/2012.
Renumbered from § 31-2-13 and amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
