# § 31-2A-16. Maternal Mortality Review Committee established

(a) The General Assembly finds that:
  (1) Georgia currently ranks fiftieth in maternal deaths in the United States;
  (2) Maternal deaths are a serious public health concern and have a tremendous family and societal impact;
  (3) Maternal deaths are significantly underestimated and inadequately documented, preventing efforts to identify and reduce or eliminate the causes of death;
  (4) No processes exist in this state for the confidential identification, investigation, or dissemination of findings regarding maternal deaths;
  (5) The federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has determined that maternal deaths should be investigated through state based maternal mortality reviews in order to institute the systemic changes needed to decrease maternal mortality; and
  (6) There is a need to establish a program to review maternal deaths and to develop strategies for the prevention of maternal deaths in Georgia.
(b) The Department of Public Health shall establish a Maternal Mortality Review Committee to review maternal deaths and to develop strategies for the prevention of maternal deaths. The committee shall be multidisciplinary and composed of members as deemed appropriate by the department. The department may contract with an external organization to assist in collecting, analyzing, and disseminating maternal mortality information, organizing and convening meetings of the committee, and other tasks as may be incident to these activities, including providing the necessary data, information, and resources to ensure successful completion of the ongoing review required by this Code section.
(c) The committee shall:
  (1) Identify maternal death cases;
  (2) Review medical records and other relevant data;
  (3) Contact family members and other affected or involved persons to collect additional relevant data;
  (4) Consult with relevant experts to evaluate the records and data;
  (5) Make determinations regarding the preventability of maternal deaths;
  (6) Develop recommendations for the prevention of maternal deaths; and
  (7) Disseminate findings and recommendations to policy makers, health care providers, health care facilities, and the general public.
(d)
  (1) Health care providers licensed pursuant to Title 43, health care facilities licensed pursuant to Chapter 7 of Title 31, and pharmacies licensed pursuant to Chapter 4 of Title 26 shall provide reasonable access to the committee to all relevant medical records associated with a case under review by the committee within 30 days of receiving a request for such records.
  (2) A health care provider, health care facility, or pharmacy providing access to medical records pursuant to this Code section shall not be held liable for civil damages or be subject to any criminal or disciplinary action for good faith efforts in providing such records.
(e)
  (1) Information, records, reports, statements, notes, memoranda, or other data collected pursuant to this Code section shall not be admissible as evidence in any action of any kind in any court or before any other tribunal, board, agency, or person. Such information, records, reports, statements, notes, memoranda, or other data shall not be exhibited nor their contents disclosed in any way, in whole or in part, by any officer or representative of the department or any other person, except as may be necessary for the purpose of furthering the review of the committee of the case to which they relate. No person participating in such review shall disclose, in any manner, the information so obtained except in strict conformity with such review project.
  (2) All information, records of interviews, written reports, statements, notes, memoranda, or other data obtained by the department, the committee, and other persons, agencies, or organizations so authorized by the department pursuant to this Code section shall be confidential.
(f)
  (1) All proceedings and activities of the committee under this Code section, opinions of members of such committee formed as a result of such proceedings and activities, and records obtained, created, or maintained pursuant to this Code section, including records of interviews, written reports, and statements procured by the department or any other person, agency, or organization acting jointly or under contract with the department in connection with the requirements of this Code section, shall be confidential and shall not be subject to Chapter 14 of Title 50, relating to open meetings, or Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, relating to open records, or subject to subpoena, discovery, or introduction into evidence in any civil or criminal proceeding; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall be construed to limit or restrict the right to discover or use in any civil or criminal proceeding anything that is available from another source and entirely independent of the committee's proceedings.
  (2) Members of the committee shall not be questioned in any civil or criminal proceeding regarding the information presented in or opinions formed as a result of a meeting or communication of the committee; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prevent a member of the committee from testifying to information obtained independently of the committee or which is public information.
(g) Reports of aggregated nonindividually identifiable data shall be compiled on a routine basis for distribution in an effort to further study the causes and problems associated with maternal deaths. A detailed annual report shall be submitted no later than October 1 to the Office of Health Strategy and Coordination.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 200,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 41,§ 2-6, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 540,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
