# § 4-12-5. Warning signs or notices posted by llama activity sponsors or llama professionals

(a) Every llama professional and every llama activity sponsor shall post and maintain signs which contain the warning notice specified in subsection (b) of this Code section. Such signs shall be placed in a clearly visible location on or near stables, corrals, pens, or arenas where the llama professional or the llama activity sponsor conducts llama activities. The warning notice specified in subsection (b) of this Code section shall appear on the sign in black letters, with each letter to be a minimum of one inch in height. Every written contract entered into by a llama professional or by a llama activity sponsor for the providing of professional services, instruction, or the rental of equipment or tack or a llama to a participant, whether or not the contract involves llama activities on the business location or site of the llama professional or the llama activity sponsor, shall contain in clearly readable print the warning notice specified in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) The signs and contracts described in subsection (a) of this Code section shall contain language substantially similar to the following warning notice: WARNINGUnder Georgia law, a llama activity sponsor or llama professional is not liable for an injury to or the death of a participant in llama activities resulting from the inherent risks of animal activities, pursuant to Chapter 12 of Title 4 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(c) Failure to comply with the requirements concerning warning signs and notices provided in this Code section shall prevent a llama activity sponsor or llama professional from invoking the privileges of immunity provided by this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 43,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
