# § 4-12-6. Warning notices; impact of noncompliance

(a) Every livestock activity sponsor, livestock professional, and owner of a livestock facility shall post and maintain signs which contain the warning notice specified in subsection (b) of this Code section. Such signs shall be placed in a clearly visible location on or near stables, corrals, or arenas where the livestock activity sponsor conducts livestock activities. The warning notice specified in subsection (b) of this Code section shall appear on the sign in black letters, with each letter to be a minimum of one inch in height. Every written contract entered into by a livestock activity sponsor, livestock professional, or livestock owner for the providing of professional services, instruction, or the rental of equipment, tack, or livestock to a participant, whether or not the contract involves livestock activities on the business location or site of such livestock activity sponsor, livestock professional, or livestock owner, shall contain in clearly readable print the warning notice specified in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) The signs and contracts described in subsection (a) of this Code section shall contain language substantially similar to the following warning notice: WARNINGUnder Georgia law, a livestock activity sponsor, livestock professional, or owner of a livestock facility is not liable for an injury to or the death of a participant in livestock activities resulting from the inherent risks of animal activities, pursuant to Chapter 12 of Title 4 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(c) Failure to comply with the requirements concerning warning signs and notices provided in this Code section shall prevent a livestock activity sponsor, livestock professional, or owner of a livestock facility from invoking the privileges of immunity provided by this chapter.

## History

Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 43,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
