# § 4-12-2. Definitions

(1) "Engages in a llama activity" means riding, training, assisting in providing medical treatment of, driving, or being a passenger upon a llama, whether mounted or unmounted, or any person assisting a participant or show management. The term "engages in a llama activity" does not include being a spectator at a llama activity, except in cases where the spectator places himself or herself in an unauthorized area and in immediate proximity to the llama activity.
(2) "Engages in an equine activity" means riding, training, assisting in providing medical treatment of, driving, or being a passenger upon an equine, whether mounted or unmounted, or any person assisting a participant or show management. The term "engages in an equine activity" does not include being a spectator at an equine activity, except in cases where the spectator places himself or herself in an unauthorized area and in immediate proximity to the equine activity.
(3) "Equine" means a horse, pony, mule, donkey, or hinny.
(4) "Equine activity" means:
  (A) Equine shows, fairs, competitions, performances, or parades that involve any or all breeds of equines and any of the equine disciplines, including, but not limited to, dressage, hunter and jumper horse shows, grand prix jumping, three-day events, combined training, rodeos, driving, pulling, cutting, polo, steeplechasing, English and western performance riding, endurance trail riding and western games, and hunting;
  (B) Equine training or teaching activities, or both;
  (C) Boarding equines;
  (D) Riding, inspecting, or evaluating an equine belonging to another, whether or not the owner has received some monetary consideration or other thing of value for the use of the equine or is permitting a prospective purchaser of the equine to ride, inspect, or evaluate the equine;
  (E) Rides, trips, hunts, or other equine activities of any type however informal or impromptu that are sponsored by an equine activity sponsor;
  (F) Placing or replacing horseshoes on an equine; and
  (G) Examining or administering medical treatment to an equine by a veterinarian.
(5) "Equine activity sponsor" means an entity which sponsors, organizes, or provides the facilities for an equine activity, including, but not limited to, pony clubs; 4-H clubs; hunt clubs; riding clubs; school and college sponsored classes, programs, and activities; therapeutic riding programs; and operators, instructors, and promoters of equine facilities, including, but not limited to, stables, clubhouses, ponyride strings, fairs, and arenas at which the activity is held.
(6) "Equine professional" means an entity engaged for compensation in:
  (A) Instructing a participant or renting to a participant an equine for the purpose of riding, driving, or being a passenger upon the equine;
  (B) Renting equipment or tack to a participant; or
  (C) Examining or administering medical treatment to an equine as a veterinarian.
(7) "Inherent risks of animal activities" means those dangers or conditions which are an integral part of equine activities, livestock activities, or llama activities, as the case may be, including, but not limited to:
  (A) The propensity of the animal to behave in ways that may result in injury, harm, or death to persons on or around them;
  (B) The unpredictability of the animal's reaction to such things as sounds, sudden movement, and unfamiliar objects, persons, or other animals;
  (C) Certain hazards such as surface and subsurface conditions;
  (D) Collisions with other animals or objects; and
  (E) The potential of a participant to act in a negligent manner that may contribute to injury to the participant or others, such as failing to maintain control over the animal or not acting within his or her ability.
(7.1) "Livestock" means swine, cattle, sheep, and goats.
(7.2) "Livestock activity" means any event in which participants are engaged in the grazing, herding, feeding, branding, boarding, milking, inspecting, or evaluating of livestock, or taking part in any other activity that involves the care or maintenance of livestock wherein such participants are not charged a fee for their participation, unless such fees charged are used exclusively for educational, scholarship, or training purposes for participants who are 23 years of age or younger; the care and maintenance of the equipment, tack, or livestock in use during such participation; or for facility overhead costs.
(7.3) "Livestock activity sponsor" means an entity sponsoring, organizing, or providing facilities for a livestock activity, and includes all employees of such entity.
(7.4) "Livestock facility" means a property or facility at which a livestock activity is held.
(7.5) "Livestock professional" means an entity owning livestock that is involved in a livestock activity.
(8) "Llama" means a South American camelid which is an animal of the genus lama, commonly referred to as a "one llama," including llamas, alpacas, guanacos, and vicunas.
(9) "Llama activity" means:
  (A) Llama shows, fairs, competitions, performances, packing events, or parades that involve any or all breeds of llamas;
  (B) Using llamas to pull carts or to carry packs or other items;
  (C) Using llamas to pull travois-type carriers during rescue or emergency situations;
  (D) Llama training or teaching activities or both;
  (E) Taking llamas on public relations trips or visits to schools or nursing homes;
  (F) Participating in commercial packing trips in which participants pay a llama professional to be a guide on a hike leading llamas;
  (G) Boarding llamas;
  (H) Riding, inspecting, or evaluating a llama belonging to another, whether or not the owner has received some monetary consideration or other thing of value for the use of the llama or is permitting a prospective purchaser of the llama to ride, inspect, or evaluate the llama;
  (I) Using llamas in wool production;
  (J) Rides, trips, or other llama activities of any type however informal or impromptu that are sponsored by a llama activity sponsor; and
  (K) Trimming the nails of a llama.
(10) "Llama activity sponsor" means an entity which sponsors, organizes, or provides the facilities for a llama activity, including, but not limited to, llama clubs; 4-H clubs; hunt clubs; riding clubs; school and college sponsored classes, programs, and activities; therapeutic riding programs; and operators, instructors, and promoters of llama facilities, including, but not limited to, stables, clubhouses, fairs, and arenas at which the activity is held.
(11) "Llama professional" means an entity engaged for compensation:
  (A) In instructing a participant or renting to a participant a llama for the purpose of riding, driving, or being a passenger upon the llama; or
  (B) In renting equipment or tack to a participant.
(12) "Participant" means any person, whether amateur or professional, who engages in an equine activity, a livestock activity, or a llama activity, whether or not a fee is paid to participate in such activity.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 43,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 4, eff. 4/24/2013.
