# § 53-2-4. Inheritance from children born out of wedlock

(a) The mother of a child born out of wedlock, the other children of the mother, and other maternal kin may inherit from and through the child born out of wedlock in the same manner as though the child were legitimate.
(b) The father of a child born out of wedlock, the other children of the father, and other paternal kin may inherit from and through the child born out of wedlock in the same manner as if the child were legitimate if:
  (1) A court of competent jurisdiction has entered an order declaring the child to be legitimate under the authority of Code Section 19-7-22 or such other authority as may be provided by law;
  (2) A court of competent jurisdiction has otherwise entered a court order establishing paternity;
  (3) The father has, during the lifetime of the child, executed a sworn statement signed by the father attesting to the parent-child relationship; provided, however, that when the court determines by clear and convincing evidence that the father caused his child to be conceived as a result of having nonconsensual sexual intercourse with the mother of his child or when the mother is less than ten years of age, such sworn statement shall be insufficient for purposes of this subsection;
  (4) The father has, during the lifetime of the child, signed the birth certificate of the child; or
  (5) The presumption of paternity described in division (2)(B)(ii) of Code Section 53-2-3 has been established and has not been rebutted by clear and convincing evidence.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 361,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 968,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
