# § 31-9B-3. Required reporting of physicians and departments; confidentiality; failure to comply

(a) Any physician who performs or attempts to perform an abortion shall report to the department, in conjunction with the reports required under Code Section 31-9A-6 and in accordance with forms and rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by the department:
  (1) If a detectable human heartbeat, as such term is defined in Code Section 1-2-1, exists, the probable gestational age, and the method and basis of the determination;
  (2) If a detectable human heartbeat, as such term is defined in Code Section 1-2-1, exists, the basis of the determination that the pregnant woman had a medically futile pregnancy, that a medical emergency existed, or that the pregnancy was the result of rape or incest; and
  (3) The method used for the abortion.
(b) By June 30 of each year, the department shall issue a public report providing statistics for the previous calendar year compiled from all of the reports covering that year submitted in accordance with this Code section for each of the items listed in subsection (a) of this Code section. Each such report shall also provide the statistics for all previous calendar years during which this Code section was in effect, adjusted to reflect any additional information from late or corrected reports. The department shall take care to ensure that none of the information included in the public reports could reasonably lead to the identification of any pregnant woman upon whom an abortion was performed.
(c) The department shall ensure that the names and identities of the physicians filing reports under this chapter shall remain confidential. The names and identities of such physicians shall not be subject to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50.
(d) Any physician who fails to submit a report by the end of the grace period of 30 days following the due date shall be subject to sanctions as specified in subsection (e) of Code Section 31-9A-6.
(e) The department shall adopt such rules and regulations as are reasonable and necessary to implement the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 234,§ 11, eff. 1/1/2020.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 631,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2013.
