# § 32-3-11. Power of judge to set aside, vacate, and annul declaration of taking; issuance and service on condemnor of rule nisi; hearing

(a) Upon proper pleadings and evidence, under the applicable rules of law, the judge of the superior court shall have the authority to set aside, vacate, and annul the declaration of taking, together with any title acquired thereby, in the same way and manner and for the same reasons as are provided by Code Sections 23-2-60 and 9-11-60. The power of the court in this respect shall not be construed as extending to a determination of questions of necessity, but there shall be a prima-facie presumption that the property or interest condemned is taken for and is necessary to the public use provided for in this article.
(b) The power of the court as described in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be restricted to the following questions:
  (1) Fraud or bad faith, as contemplated by Code Sections 23-2-60 and 9-11-60;
  (2) The improper use of the powers of this article, such as are not contemplated by this article;
  (3) The abuse or misuse of the powers of this article; and
  (4) Such other questions as may properly be raised, including the question of whether or not this article has been invoked in some respect beyond the privileges conferred by this article or by an unauthorized agency, county, or municipality.
(c) If the condemnee desires to raise such questions as are outlined in subsection (b) of this Code section, the same shall be done by proper pleadings, in the form of a petition addressed to the judge of the superior court having jurisdiction thereof, filed in the same proceedings not later than 30 days subsequent to the date of service upon the condemnee of the declaration of taking. The presiding judge shall thereupon cause a rule nisi to be issued and served upon the condemnor, requiring him or her to show cause at a time and place designated by the judge why the title acquired by the declaration of taking should not be vacated and set aside in the same way and manner as is now provided for setting aside deeds acquired by fraud. Such hearing shall be had not earlier than 15 days from the time of service of the rule nisi upon the condemnor, nor later than 60 days from the date of filing of the declaration of taking, and with the right of appeal by either party, as in other cases.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 424,§ 5, eff. 4/22/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-17, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
