# § 32-3-3.1. Relocation or reconstruction of outdoor advertising sign; requirements

(a) When rights of way or real property or interests therein are acquired by a state agency, county, or municipality for public road purposes and an outdoor advertising sign permitted by the state in accordance with Part 2 of Article 3 of Chapter 6 of this title and a local county or municipal ordinance, which has not lapsed and is in good standing, is located upon such property, the outdoor advertising sign may be relocated or reconstructed and relocated through agreement of the owner of the property and owner of the outdoor advertising sign, if such owners do not refer to the same person, so long as the new location:
  (1) Is within 250 feet of its original location, provided that the new location meets the requirements for an outdoor advertising sign provided in Part 2 of Article 3 of Chapter 6 of this title;
  (2) Is available to the owner of the outdoor advertising sign and is comparable to the original location, as agreed upon by the owner of the outdoor advertising sign and the department;
  (3) Does not result in a violation of federal or state law; and
  (4) Is within zoned commercial or industrial areas or unzoned commercial or industrial areas as defined in Code Section 32-6-71.
(b) An outdoor advertising sign relocated as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section, or the visibility of which is otherwise obstructed by the construction of a sound wall, noise barrier, or other transportation related improvement, may be adjusted in height or angle or both in order to restore the visibility of the sign to the same or a comparable visibility which existed prior to acquisition by a state agency, county, or municipality, provided that the height of such relocated sign shall not exceed the greater of the height of the existing sign or 75 feet, as measured from the base of the sign or the crown of the adjacent roadway to which the sign is permitted, whichever is greater.
(c) For any federal aid project or any project financed in whole or in part with federal funds, the actual costs of relocation or reconstruction and relocation of an outdoor advertising sign relocated as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be paid by the department. For any project not financed in whole or in part with federal funds, the actual costs of relocation or reconstruction and relocation shall be paid by the owner of the outdoor advertising sign.
(d) If no relocation site that meets the requirements of paragraphs (1) through (4) of subsection (a) of this Code section exists, just and adequate compensation shall be paid by the department to the owner of the outdoor advertising sign.
(e) If a sign is eligible to be relocated as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section, or the visibility of which is otherwise obstructed by the construction of a sound wall, noise barrier, or other transportation related improvement, but such new location would result in a conflict with local ordinances in the city or county of applicable jurisdiction and no variance or other exception is granted to allow relocation as requested by the owner of the outdoor advertising sign, just and adequate compensation shall be paid by the local governing authority to the owner of the outdoor advertising sign. However, no compensation resulting from the denial of a variance or exception by a local governing authority for an outdoor advertising sign eligible for relocation under this Code section shall be paid either directly or indirectly by the department.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 507,§ 5, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 184,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2015.
