# § 32-3-8. Service of process in condemnation proceedings generally

(a) Upon the filing of the petition and declaration, where the owner or owners of the property sought to be condemned or any person having a claim against or interest in the same are residents of this state, the petition and declaration shall be served upon such persons personally. In cases where such persons are residents of this state but not of the county in which such property or interest is located, such service shall be by second original, as in other cases.
(b) If the owner, or any of the owners, or any person having a claim against or interest in the property is a minor or under any disability whatsoever, such notice shall be served:
  (1) Upon his or her guardian; and, if such guardian is a nonresident of this state, upon the judge of the probate court of the county in which the property or interest is located, who shall appoint a guardian ad litem to represent such minors or persons under disability in the litigation, provided that, if the nonresident guardian intervenes, he or she shall serve in lieu of the guardian ad litem; or
  (2) If there is no guardian, personally upon the minor, where such minor is a resident of this state. If such minor is not a resident of the county where the property or interest is located, service shall be by second original, as is provided by law in other cases, and upon the judge of the probate court of the county where the property or interest is located, who shall appoint a guardian ad litem to represent the minor in the litigation.
(c) In subsection (b) of this Code section, if the judge of the probate court is disqualified, for reason of interest or other cause, notice shall be served upon the clerk of the superior court of the county, who shall appoint a guardian ad litem to represent the minor or person under disability.
(d) If the property or interest sought to be condemned is held in trust or if the condemnation is directed toward property in which remainders have been created, notice shall be served upon the trustee and also upon such persons as have an interest under the conveyance and who are of age, provided that, where any of the persons to be served are not residents of the county, such service shall be by second original, as in other cases.
(e) A copy of the petition and declaration shall be served upon the tax collecting authority of any county or municipality in which the property or interest may be located, who shall make known in writing the taxes due on the property or interest; and the court shall give such direction as will satisfy the same and discharge the lien thereon.
(f) In all instances, and in addition to the service provided for in this Code section, the condemnor shall, at the time of filing the petition and declaration of taking, cause a copy of such proceedings to be posted on the bulletin board at the courthouse. In addition thereto, such advertisement shall be published in the official newspaper of the county in which the property or interest is located, which notice shall describe the property or interest taken so as to identify the same and shall give the name or names of the owner or owners of such property or interest or persons having claims against such property or interest so far as the same may be known. Such notice shall be published in such newspaper once each week for two weeks subsequent to the filing of such petition and declaration.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 7.1, eff. 7/1/2005
