# § 32-3-16. Appeal to jury; evidence to be heard on appeal; subsequent review of issues not brought before jury

(a) After the notice of appeal has been filed as provided in Code Section 32-3-14, it shall be the duty of the court at the next term thereof, which shall convene not earlier than 30 days subsequent to the date of service, as provided for in Code Sections 32-3-8 and 32-3-9, to cause an issue to be made and tried by a jury as to the value of the property or interest taken and the consequential damages to property or interests not taken, with the same right to move for a new trial and file a notice of appeal as in other cases at law, provided that an interlocutory award has not become final pursuant to Code Section 32-3-15.
(b) When an appeal has been filed pursuant to Code Section 32-3-14, all subsequent proceedings thereon shall have the nature of a de novo investigation with the right of either party, under the rules of evidence as provided for in the general laws of this state, to introduce evidence concerning:
  (1) The fair market value of the property or interest taken or other evidence of just and adequate compensation;
  (2) The prospective and consequential damages to the remaining property or interests by reason of the taking and use of the property or interest for the purposes for which taken; and
  (3) The consequential benefits accruing to such remaining property or interests by reason of such taking and use, provided that such consequential benefits, if any, may be offset against such consequential damages, if any; but, in no event, shall consequential benefits be offset against the value of the property or interest actually taken.
(c) If, for any reason, the issues made by the filing of the notice of appeal provided for in this Code section are not tried by a jury as to the value of the property or interest taken and the consequential damages to the property or interests not taken, at the next term of the court after the filing of such appeal, such fact shall not be cause for dismissal of the appeal and the issues made by such appeal shall be subject to trial at any future term of the court.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 424,§ 7, eff. 4/22/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-19, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
