# § 9-7-15. Exceptions to matters outside record; certification by auditor or return with objections; application for mandamus; notice and hearing; effect of mandamus absolute

(a) Exceptions as to any matter not appearing on the face of the record, in the transcript of the evidence and proceedings, or in the report itself, shall be certified to be true by the auditor within 40 days after the report is filed. If the auditor determines that any such exception is not true or does not contain all of the necessary facts, he shall return the same within ten days to the party or his attorney with his objections in writing. If these objections are met and removed within ten days, he may then certify the same, specifying the cause of delay.
(b) If for any cause the exceptions are not certified by the auditor, without fault of the party or his attorney, the party or his attorney may apply to the judge of the superior court within 30 days from the tendering of the exceptions and on petition obtain a mandamus nisi directed to the auditor.
(c) The petition for a mandamus nisi shall set out a substantial copy of the exceptions, and shall be verified by the party or his counsel, or supported by other proof as to the truth of the facts stated therein. The mandamus nisi shall be served upon the auditor within ten days after the same is signed by the judge and shall be made returnable not more than 30 days after signing. The opposite party shall have notice of the time and place of hearing the mandamus nisi and may resist the application for a mandamus absolute. If there is a traverse filed to the answer, the same shall be determined by a jury. If the mandamus is made absolute, the order shall have the effect, to that extent, of amending the report of the auditor.
