# § 31-17A-3. Refusal to consent to test; procedure

(a) If a person refuses to consent to an HIV test, as provided in Code Section 31-17A-2, the Department of Public Health may file a civil complaint with the superior court of the county of the residence of the person refusing the test. The complaint shall allege with specificity the basis for the allegations which the department believes support the conclusion that the person is infected with HIV, as well as the scope, nature, and threat to the public health created thereby, and the proposed plan to be adopted to protect the public health in the event the court orders the administration of the HIV test and the person is found to be an HIV infected person. The person against whom the complaint is filed shall be represented by counsel, and, in the event the person against whom the complaint is filed cannot afford counsel, counsel shall be appointed by the court.
(b) The superior court shall hear the complaint on an expedited basis without a jury. All proceedings before the court shall be sealed.
(c) If after consideration of the evidence, the court finds clear and convincing evidence that the person is reasonably likely to be infected with HIV and that there is a compelling need to protect the public health, the court may order the person to submit to an HIV test, shall retain jurisdiction to render such orders as are appropriate to effectuate that order, and, in the event the person so tested is determined to be infected with HIV, to require such procedures to protect the public health consistent with the least restrictive alternative which is available within the limits of state funds specifically appropriated therefor.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
