# § 43-20A-15. Formal order of investigation; authorized action; emergency order; notice requirements

(a) The Secretary of State shall be authorized to issue a formal order of investigation. Such order shall commence an investigation to determine whether any person is in violation of this chapter or to aid in the enforcement of this chapter.
(b) The Secretary of State shall be authorized to take any administrative action authorized by law to enforce the provisions of this chapter. The Secretary of State shall be authorized to transmit a civil or criminal referral investigative report and evidence of violations of this chapter to any prosecuting attorney or to the Attorney General, who may, at his or her individual discretion, institute any necessary civil or criminal proceedings.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, an emergency order pursuant to this Code section shall be effective on the date of issuance, provided that:
  (1) The Secretary of State deems that the public health, safety, or welfare imperatively requires emergency action and incorporates a finding to that effect in the emergency order, in which case the order may be effective immediately pending proceedings, which shall be promptly instituted; or
  (2) The order is expressly required, by a judgment or a statute, to be made without the right to a hearing or continuance of any type.
(d) Upon issuance of the notice and proposed order, pursuant to this Code section, the Secretary of State shall promptly serve each person subject to the order with a copy of the notice and proposed order. The order shall include a statement of any administrative sanctions that the Secretary of State will seek, a statement of the reasons for the order, and notice that, upon the request by any respondent named in the emergency order, a hearing will be promptly scheduled pursuant to the provisions of Code Sections 50-13-18 and 50-13-41. Hearings shall be conducted by the Office of State Administrative Hearings pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50. If a person subject to the order does not request from the Office of State Administrative Hearings a hearing within 30 days after the date of service of the notice and proposed order, the order shall become final as to that person by operation of law. If any person subject to the emergency order requests a hearing, or is ordered by the Secretary of State, after notice and opportunity for hearing has been served upon each person subject to the emergency order, the Secretary of State may modify, vacate, or extend the emergency order any time prior to a final determination.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 775,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2008.
