# § 43-20A-2. Definitions

(1) "Advertise" or "advertising" means any communication, written or otherwise, produced or caused to be produced by a person licensed pursuant to this chapter promoting the goods or services regulated by this chapter.
(2) "Alien" means any person not a citizen of the United States.
(3) "Application" means any forms, documents, and information required pursuant to this chapter that applicants are required to file with the Secretary of State.
(4) "Client" means any person seeking immigration assistance.
(5) "Compensation" means money, property, services, promise of payment, or any other consideration or anything of value.
(6) "Immigrant" means every alien with the exception of an alien within a class of nonimmigrant aliens as defined in 8 U.S.C.A. Section 1101(a)(15).
(7) "Immigration assistance" means any service provided to clients for compensation related to immigration matters, but shall not include legal advice, recommending a specific course of legal action, or providing any other assistance that requires legal analysis, legal judgment, or the interpretation of the law.
(8) "Immigration assistance provider" means any person who is licensed to provide immigration assistance pursuant to this chapter.
(9) "Immigration matter" means any proceeding, filing, or action affecting the nonimmigrant, immigrant, or citizenship status of any person that arises under:
  (A) Immigration and naturalization law, executive order, or presidential proclamation of the United States or any foreign country; or
  (B) Action of the United States Department of Labor, the United States Department of State, the United States Department of Homeland Security, or the United States Department of Justice.
(10) "Nonimmigrant" means any alien within a class of nonimmigrant aliens as defined in 8 U.S.C.A. Section 1101(a)(15).
(11) "Order" means, but is not limited to, an administrative order issued under the provisions of this chapter or a similar order issued by a court of competent jurisdiction, any federal, foreign, or state agency, or a self-regulatory organization that makes a finding that the provisions of this chapter have been violated and sanctions administered.
(12) "Person" means any individual, partnership, corporation, association, or private organization of any character, but not a governmental entity of any kind.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 43, eff. 5/13/2011.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 775,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2008.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 457,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2007.
