# § 35-5-7. Law enforcement unit

(a) The administrator of the center, with the approval of the board, is authorized to establish a law enforcement unit within the Georgia Public Safety Training Center and appoint employees to serve as peace officers who shall be responsible for preserving public order, protecting life and property, and preventing crime. Such employees shall have been certified by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council as having successfully completed the course of training required by Chapter 8 of this title, the "Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act."
(b) While in the performance of their duties, such peace officers shall have the same law enforcement powers, including the power of arrest, as any other law enforcement officer certified pursuant to Chapter 8 of this title, the "Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act." The Georgia Public Safety Training Center law enforcement unit shall enforce laws on all properties controlled by the Georgia Public Safety Training Center and enforce state laws and protect life and property when ordered by the Governor or requested by a sheriff of a county or police chief of a county or municipality in this state. Such officers shall be authorized to possess and carry such firearms and other weapons while on duty as may be prescribed by the administrator of the center.
(c) From funds appropriated or available to the Georgia Public Safety Training Center, the administrator of the center shall be authorized to provide motor vehicles, uniforms, firearms, and any other equipment and supplies to employees of the Georgia Public Safety Training Center law enforcement unit necessary to carry out the provisions of this Code section.
(d) This Code section shall not repeal, supersede, alter, or affect the power of any other law enforcement officer of this state or of any county, municipality, or other political subdivision of this state.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 506,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
