# § 35-5-5. Center available for use by certain personnel; fees; enrollment; authorization for expenditure of funds; powers and duties

(a) Subject to such rules and regulations as shall be prescribed by the board, the facilities of the center may be made available to all state and local law enforcement officers, firefighters, emergency medical personnel, and correctional personnel and may also be made available to other persons who evidence interest in entering the fields of law enforcement, fire fighting, emergency medical services, or corrections.
(b) The board is authorized to prescribe and collect such fees as are necessary to defray all or a portion of the cost of furnishing such training and the use of the facilities of the center.
(c) The state and counties and municipalities of this state are authorized to expend funds for the purpose of paying the fees assessed for use of the center. The board shall have the authority to determine who shall be allowed to enroll and participate in the training programs of the center and who shall be allowed to utilize the facilities of the center.
(d) Subject to such rules and regulations as shall be prescribed by the board, the Georgia Public Safety Training Center shall have the following powers and duties in connection with the training of peace officers, emergency medical personnel, behavioral health co-responders, and law enforcement support personnel:
  (1) To train instructors authorized to conduct training of peace officers, emergency medical personnel, behavioral health co-responders, and law enforcement support personnel;
  (2) To reimburse or provide for certain costs incurred in training peace officers, emergency medical personnel, behavioral health co-responders, and law enforcement support personnel employed or appointed by each agency, organ, or department of this state, counties, and municipalities to the extent that funds are appropriated for such purpose by the General Assembly. In the event sufficient funds are not appropriated for a fiscal year to fund the full cost provided for in this paragraph, then the amount which would otherwise be payable shall be reduced pro rata on the basis of the funds actually appropriated. As used in this paragraph, the terms "cost" and "costs" shall not include travel or salaries of personnel undergoing training and shall be limited exclusively to the cost of tuition which is incurred in connection with such training;
  (3) To reimburse or provide for certain costs incurred in training active duty, retired, or honorably discharged members of the United States armed forces who are attending basic law enforcement training, as outlined in subsection (a) of Code Section 35-8-9, to the extent that funds are appropriated for such purpose by the General Assembly. In the event sufficient funds are not appropriated for a fiscal year to fund the full cost provided for in this paragraph, then the amount which would otherwise be payable shall be reduced pro rata on the basis of the funds actually appropriated. As used in this paragraph, the terms "cost" and "costs" shall not include travel or salaries of service members undergoing training and shall be limited exclusively to the cost of tuition which is incurred in connection with such training if such cost or costs are not covered by any other resource available to such service member. Each active duty, retired, or honorably discharged service member undergoing this training shall have complied with the requirements set forth in Code Section 35-8-8;
  (4) To expend funds appropriated or otherwise available to the center for paying the costs of training provided under subsection (a) of Code Section 35-8-20, other than travel expenses and salaries of police chiefs or department heads of law enforcement units and wardens of state institutions undergoing training, and shall expend such funds for purposes of compensating a training officer to administer the course of training and conduct any business associated with the training provisions of said Code Section 35-8-20;
  (5) To expend funds appropriated or otherwise available to the center for paying the costs of training provided for under subsection (a) of Code Section 35-8-20.1, other than travel expenses and salaries of police chiefs or department heads of law enforcement units undergoing training, and shall expend such funds for purposes of compensating a training officer to administer the course of training and conduct any business associated with the training provisions of said Code Section 35-8-20.1;
  (6) To expend funds appropriated or otherwise available to the center for paying the costs of training provided for under Chapter 11 of Title 31 for the initial certification training and continued training as needed by emergency medical personnel and shall expend such funds for purposes of compensating a training officer to administer the course of training and conduct any business associated with the training provisions of said chapter; and
  (7) To administer and coordinate the training for communications officers with respect to the requirements of Code Section 35-8-23. The board shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to facilitate the administration and coordination of training consistent with the provisions of said Code Section 35-8-23. The tuition costs of the training of communications officers shall be paid from funds appropriated to the center.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 649,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 587,§ 4-5, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 940,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
