# § 24-6-612. Writing used to refresh memory

(a) If a witness uses a writing to refresh his or her memory while testifying, an adverse party shall be entitled to have the writing produced at the hearing or trial, to inspect it, to cross-examine the witness on such writing, and to introduce in evidence those portions of such writing which relate to the testimony of the witness.
(b) If a witness uses a writing to refresh his or her memory before testifying at trial and the court in its discretion determines it is necessary in the interests of justice, an adverse party shall be entitled to have the writing produced at the trial, to inspect it, to cross-examine the witness on such writing, and to introduce in evidence those portions of such writing which relate to the testimony of the witness. If the writing used is protected by the attorney-client privilege or as attorney work product under Code Section 9-11-26, use of the writing to refresh recollection prior to testifying shall not constitute a waiver of that privilege or protection. If it is claimed that the writing contains matters not related to the subject matter of the testimony, the court shall examine the writing in camera, excise any portions of such writing not so related, and order delivery of the remainder of such writing to the party entitled to such writing. Any portion withheld over objections shall be preserved and made available to the appellate court in the event of an appeal. If a writing is not produced or delivered pursuant to an order under this Code section, the court shall make any order justice requires; provided, however, that in criminal proceedings, when the prosecution elects not to comply, the order shall be one striking the testimony or, if the court in its discretion determines that the interests of justice so require, declaring a mistrial.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 132,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2013.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2013.
