# § 24-6-657. Oath of interpreters; privileged communications; taping and filming of hearing impaired persons' testimony

(a) Prior to providing any service to a hearing impaired person, any qualified interpreter or intermediary interpreter shall subscribe to an oath that he or she will interpret all communications in an accurate manner to the best of his or her skill and knowledge. The Supreme Court of Georgia may by rule of court prescribe the form of the oath for interpreters and intermediary interpreters for use in court and other judicial proceedings.
(b) Whenever a hearing impaired person communicates with any other person through the use of an interpreter and under circumstances which make such communications privileged or otherwise confidential, the presence of the interpreter shall not vitiate such privilege and the interpreter shall not be required to disclose the contents of such communication.
(c) Whenever a qualified interpreter is required by this article, the agency or law enforcement agency shall not begin the proceeding or take any action until such interpreter is in full view of and spatially situated so as to assure effective communication with the hearing impaired person.
(d) The agency or law enforcement agency may, upon its own motion or upon motion of any party, witness, or participant, order that the testimony of the hearing impaired person be electronically and visually recorded. Any such recording may be used to verify the testimony given by the hearing impaired person.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2013.
