# § 33-36-20. Liability of pool to claimants and electing insureds in emergency circumstances; definitions; exceptions

(a) It is the policy of this state to protect insureds and their claimants from liability as a result of the insolvency of insurers. In furtherance of this policy, it is the intent of the legislature, notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, that the Georgia Insurers Insolvency Pool shall be liable to claimants and electing insureds in emergency circumstances.
(b) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Electing insured" means any insured under a workers' compensation insurance policy that is impacted by an emergency circumstance. Such term shall include but not be limited to governmental insureds and other insureds under a workers' compensation insurance policy impacted by an emergency circumstance whose net worth exceeds $25 million as of December 31 of the year preceding the filing of a claim.
  (2) "Emergency circumstance" means a circumstance in which an association or industrial insured captive insurance company, including such a captive company that subsequently was authorized to transact business pursuant to Chapter 3 of this title, that is issuing, or which has issued, workers' compensation insurance contracts and has been declared insolvent.
  (3) "Emergency claimant" means any third-party claimant, under a workers' compensation insurance policy, who is impacted by an emergency circumstance and whose employer has, by a court of competent jurisdiction, been declared bankrupt or insolvent.
(c) Any electing insured whose net worth is less than $25 million as of December 31 of the year preceding the filing of a claim may be shielded from liability by the pool and have any workers' compensation claims filed against such electing insured covered by the pool, provided said electing insured pays $10,000.00 per claim to the insolvency pool prior to October 1, 2010. Any electing insured whose net worth exceeds $25 million as of December 31 of the year preceding the filing of a claim may be shielded from liability by the pool and have any workers' compensation claims filed against such electing insured covered by the pool, provided said electing insured pays $50,000.00 per claim to the insolvency pool prior to October 1, 2010. Claims of all emergency claimants shall be covered by the insolvency pool.
(d) Claimants shall retain the right to pursue claims against any insured that is not an electing insured.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 666,§ 3, eff. 6/4/2010.
