# § 33-36-7. Levy of assessments against insurers; reimbursement of expenses; refunds of assessments

(a) For the purposes of administration and assessment under this Code section, the pool shall be divided into three separate accounts:
  (1) workers' compensation insurance account;
  (2) automobile insurance account; and
  (3) all other covered insurance account. Separate assessment shall be made for each account. No assessment shall be levied for any account as long as the assets held in such account are sufficient to cover all estimated payments for liquidation in process under the account.
(b) To the extent necessary to secure the funds for the respective accounts of the pool for the payment of covered claims and also to pay the reasonable costs to administer the pool, the Commissioner, upon certification of the pool, shall levy assessments in the proportion that each insurer's net direct written premiums in this state in the classes protected by the account bear to the total of the net direct written premiums received in this state by all such insurers for the preceding calendar year for the kinds of insurance included within such account. Assessments shall be remitted to and administered by the pool in the manner specified by the approved plan. Each insurer so assessed shall have at least 30 days' written notice as to the date the assessment is due and payable. Every assessment shall be made as a uniform percentage applicable to the net direct written premiums of each insurer in the kinds of insurance included within the account in which the assessment is made. The assessments levied against any insurer shall not exceed in any one year more than 2 percent of that insurer's net direct written premiums in this state for the kinds of insurance included within such account during the calendar year next preceding the date of such assessments. If sufficient funds from the assessments, together with funds previously raised, are not available in any one year in the respective account to make all the payments or reimbursements then owing to insurers designated to act for the pool, the funds available shall be prorated and the unpaid portion shall be paid as soon thereafter as funds become available.
(c) The pool may exempt any insurer from an assessment if an assessment by the pool would result in the insurer's financial statement reflecting an amount of capital or surplus less than the sum of the minimum amount required by any jurisdiction in which the insurer is authorized to transact insurance.
(d) Any necessary and proper expenses incurred by an insurer in the investigation, adjustment, compromise, settlement, denial, or handling of claims assigned to it shall, upon proper verification under the rules of the pool, entitle the insurer to reimbursement. Any insurer whose employee serves on the staff of the pool may set off from its assessment any necessary and proper expenses incurred by the insurer resulting from said service of its employee.
(e) An insurer which ceases to engage in the business of writing property or casualty insurance policies in this state shall have no right to a refund of any assessment previously remitted to the pool.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 108,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2005.
