# § 33-36-4. Insurers Solvency Board

(a) There shall be a board of trustees of the Georgia Insurers Insolvency Pool which shall be known as the Insurers Solvency Board and which shall consist of seven members. At all times, the board shall contain at least one member from a domestic insurer. The members of the board shall not be considered employees of the department. The members of the board shall be selected by the Commissioner. Each board member so selected shall represent a company licensed to do business in Georgia. Any member may be removed from office by the Commissioner when, in his or her judgment, the public interest may so require. Each member appointed shall serve for a term of three years and until his or her successor has been appointed and qualified and, in case of a vacancy for any reason in the office of any such member, the Commissioner shall appoint a member to fill the unexpired term of such vacant office.
(b) In approving selections to the board, the Commissioner shall consider among other things whether all member insurers are fairly represented.
(c) The actual expenses of the members of the board incurred in attending meetings shall be paid out of the assets of the insolvency pool, but members of the board shall not otherwise be compensated by the pool for their services. For the purpose of considering questions before it, the board shall have access to all the books, records, reports, and papers in the department, including all confidential communications; and the members of the board shall treat such communications as confidential.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 108,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2005.
