# § 33-36-9. Coverage afforded by insolvent insurers to become obligation of pool; investigation and settlement of claims by pool

In the event an insurer is ordered to be liquidated, the coverage afforded by property and casualty insurance policies issued by such insurer shall, with respect to covered claims, become the obligation of the pool for a period of 30 days from the date of such determination or until policy expiration date if less than said 30 days or until the policy has been replaced by the insurer within said 30 days. The pool shall be deemed the insurer only to the extent of its obligation on the covered claims and to such extent, subject to the limitations provided in this chapter, shall have all rights, duties, and obligations of the insolvent insurer as if the insurer had not become insolvent, including, but not limited to, the right to pursue and retain salvage and subrogation recoverable on paid covered claim obligations. The pool shall not be deemed the insolvent insurer for any purpose relating to the issue of whether the pool is amenable to the personal jurisdiction of the courts of any state. The pool is authorized to investigate, adjust, compromise, and settle covered claims or to investigate, handle, and deny noncovered claims. The pool shall have the authority, upon approval of the Commissioner, to borrow funds necessary to effect the purposes of this chapter. The pool shall have the authority to establish procedures for requesting financial information from insureds on a confidential basis for purposes of applying Code sections concerning their net worth, subject to such information being shared with any other association similar to the pool and the liquidator for the insolvent company on the same confidential basis. If the insured refuses to provide the requested financial information and an auditor's certification of the same where requested and available, the pool may deem the net worth of the insured, in the instance of a first-party claim, to be in excess of $10 million at the relevant time or, in the event of a third-party claim, to be in excess of $25 million at the relevant time. In any lawsuit contesting the applicability of subparagraph (G) of paragraph (4) of Code Section 33-36-3 or subsection (d) of Code Section 33-36-14 where the insured has declined to provide financial information under the procedure provided pursuant to this Code section, the insured shall bear the burden of proof concerning its net worth at the relevant time. If the insured fails to prove that its net worth at the relevant time was less than the applicable amount, the court shall award the pool its full costs, expenses, and reasonable attorney's fees in contesting the claim.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 33, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 108,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2005.
