# § 33-36-14. Exhaustion of rights by claimants against insolvent insurers prior to recovery; recovery of payment to claimants in excess of amounts authorized; reduction of liability of insured; recovery of amounts paid on behalf of certain persons

(a) Except as provided for in Code Section 33-36-20, any person having a claim against a policy or an insured under a policy issued by an insolvent insurer, which claim is a covered claim and is also a claim within the coverage of any policy issued by a solvent insurer, shall be required to exhaust first his or her rights under such policy issued by the solvent insurer. The policy of the solvent insurer shall be treated as primary coverage and the policy of the insolvent insurer shall be treated as secondary coverage and his or her rights to recover such claim under this chapter shall be reduced by any amounts received from the solvent insurers.
(b) Any amount paid a claimant in excess of the amount authorized by this chapter may be recovered by an action brought by or on behalf of the pool.
(c) To the extent that the pool's obligation is reduced by the application of this Code section, the liability of the person insured by the insolvent insurer's policy for the claim shall be reduced in the same amount.
(d) Except as provided for in Code Section 33-36-20, the pool shall have the right to recover from the following persons all amounts paid by the pool on behalf of such person, whether for indemnity or defense or otherwise:
  (1) Any insured whose net worth on December 31 of the year immediately preceding the date the insurer becomes an insolvent insurer exceeds $25 million, provided that an insured's net worth on such date shall be deemed to include the aggregate net worth of the insured and all of its subsidiaries and affiliates as calculated on a consolidated basis; and
  (2) Any person who is an affiliate of the insolvent insurer.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 776,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 666,§ 2, eff. 6/4/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 108,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2005.
