# § 33-36-7.1. Surcharge on premiums to recoup assessments; disclosure to insureds; excess surcharges, exception where the expense of collection would exceed the amount of the surcharge

(a) The plan adopted pursuant to Code Section 33-36-6 shall contain provisions whereby each member insurer is required to recoup over the year following the year of the assessment a sum calculated to recoup the assessments paid by the member insurer under this chapter by way of a surcharge on premiums charged for insurance policies to which this chapter applies. Amounts recouped shall not be considered premiums for any other purpose, including the computation of gross premium tax or agents' commission.
(b) The amount of any surcharge shall be separately stated on either a billing or policy declaration sent to an insured. Member insurers who collect surcharges in excess of assessments paid pursuant to Code Section 33-36-7 for an insolvent insurer shall remit the excess to the pool as an additional assessment within 30 days after the pool has determined the amount of the excess recoupment and given notice to the member of that amount. The excess shall be applied to reduce future assessment charges in the appropriate category.
(c) The plan of operation may permit a member insurer to omit collection of the surcharge from its insureds when the expense of collecting the surcharge would exceed the amount of the surcharge. However, nothing in this Code section shall relieve the member insurer of its obligation to recoup the amount of surcharge otherwise collectable.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 129, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 33, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 108,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2005.
