# § 48-11-11. Records of distributors and dealers; stock examination; inspection by commissioner and agents; inspection of records of transportation companies, carriers, and warehouses

(a) Each distributor and each dealer shall keep complete and accurate records of all cigars, cigarettes, loose or smokeless tobacco, alternative nicotine products, and vapor products manufactured, produced, purchased, and sold. The original records or a complete and legible photocopy or electronic image shall be safely preserved for three years in an appropriate manner to ensure permanency and accessibility for inspection by the commissioner and the commissioner's authorized agents. The commissioner and the commissioner's authorized agents may examine the books, papers, and records of any distributor or dealer in this state for the purpose of determining whether the tax imposed by this chapter has been fully paid and, for the purpose of determining whether the provisions of this chapter are properly observed, may investigate and examine the stock of cigars, cigarettes, loose or smokeless tobacco, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products in or upon any premises, including, but not limited to, public and private warehouses where the cigars, cigarettes, loose or smokeless tobacco, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are possessed, stored, or sold. Invoices sufficient to cover current inventory at a licensed location shall be maintained at such licensed location and made available for immediate inspection. All other records may be kept at a locality other than the licensed location and shall be provided for inspection within two business days after receipt of notification from the commissioner or an authorized agent of the commissioner to make such records available.
(b) The commissioner and his or her authorized agents may examine the books, papers, and records of any transportation company, any common, contract, or private carrier, and any public or private warehouse for the purpose of determining whether the provisions of this chapter are properly observed.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 483,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 48, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 698,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 343, § 26, eff. 7/1/2003.
