# § 48-11-22. Transportation of unstamped tobacco or vaping products; requirement of invoices or delivery tickets; contents; confiscation and disposition absent invoice or ticket; penalty; applicability

(a) Every person who transports upon the public highways, roads, and streets of this state cigars, cigarettes, loose or smokeless tobacco, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products not stamped or on which tax has not been paid in accordance with the alternate regulations provided by the commissioner under Code Section 48-11-3 shall have in such person's actual possession invoices or delivery tickets for the cigars, cigarettes, loose or smokeless tobacco, alternative nicotine products, and vapor products which show the true name and address of the consignor or seller, the true name of the consignee or purchaser, the quantity and brands of the cigars, cigarettes, loose or smokeless tobacco, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products transported, and the name and address of the person who has assumed or shall assume the payment of the tax at the point of ultimate destination. In the absence of the invoices or delivery tickets, the cigars, cigarettes, loose or smokeless tobacco, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products being transported and the vehicles in which the cigars, cigarettes, loose or smokeless tobacco, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are being transported shall be confiscated and disposed of as provided in Code Section 48-11-9; and the transporter may be liable for a penalty of not more than $50.00 for each individual carton of little cigars or cigarettes, $50.00 for each individual box of cigars, $50.00 for each individual container of loose or smokeless tobacco being transported by such person, and $50.00 for each individual container of alternative nicotine products, each vapor device, or each 5 milliliters of consumable vapor products. The penalty shall be recovered as provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 48-11-24.
(b) This Code section shall apply only to the transportation of more than 200 cigarettes, more than 200 little cigars, more than 20 cigars, more than six containers of loose or smokeless tobacco, more than six containers of alternative nicotine products, more than five vapor devices, or more than 50 milliliters of consumable vapor products.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 483,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 698,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 343, § 34, eff. 7/1/2003.
