# § 48-11-12. Assessment of deficiencies and penalties for incorrect reports, nonpayment of tax, or purchase of insufficient stamps; assumption of illegal sale absent evidence to contrary; penalty for deficiency due to fraud

(a)
  (1) The commissioner shall assess a deficiency and may assess a penalty of 10 percent of the deficiency if, after an examination of the invoices, books, and records of a licensed distributor or dealer or of any other information obtained by the commissioner or the commissioner's authorized agents, the commissioner determines that:
    (A) The report of the licensed distributor or dealer is incorrect;
    (B) The licensed distributor or dealer has not paid the tax in accordance with the alternate regulations promulgated by the commissioner under Code Section 48-11-3; or
    (C) The licensed distributor or dealer has not purchased sufficient stamps to cover such licensed distributor's or dealer's receipts for sales or other disposition of unstamped cigarettes or loose or smokeless tobacco and nontax-paid cigars, nontax-paid loose or smokeless tobacco, nontax-paid alternative nicotine products, or nontax-paid vapor products.
  (2) In any case where a licensed distributor or dealer cannot produce evidence of sufficient stamps purchased or other payment of the tax to cover the receipt of unstamped cigarettes or loose or smokeless tobacco or nontax-paid cigars, nontax-paid loose or smokeless tobacco, nontax-paid alternative nicotine products, or nontax-paid vapor products, it shall be assumed that the cigars, cigarettes, and loose or smokeless tobacco were sold without having either the proper stamps affixed or the tax paid on unstamped cigars or loose or smokeless tobacco.
(b) If the commissioner determines that the deficiency or any part of the deficiency is due to a fraudulent intent to evade the tax, a penalty of 50 percent of the deficiency shall be added to the amount due.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 483,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 48, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 48, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 343, § 27, eff. 7/1/2003.
