# § 48-11-19. Powers and duties of special agents and enforcement officers of department; bond; duties following arrests; retention of weapon and badge upon retirement

(a) Each person appointed by the commissioner as a special agent or enforcement officer of the department for the enforcement of the laws of this state with respect to the manufacture, transportation, distribution, sale, possession, and taxation of cigars, cigarettes, little cigars, loose or smokeless tobacco, alternative nicotine products, and vapor products shall have the authority throughout this state to:
  (1) Obtain and execute warrants for arrest of persons charged with violations of such laws;
  (2) Obtain and execute search warrants in the enforcement of such laws;
  (3) Arrest without warrant any person violating such laws in the officer's presence or within such officer's immediate knowledge when there is likely to be a failure of enforcement of such laws for want of a judicial officer to issue a warrant;
  (4) Make investigations in the enforcement of such laws and, in connection with such investigations, to go upon any property outside buildings, whether posted or otherwise, in the performance of such officer's duties;
  (5) Seize and take possession of all property which is declared contraband under such laws; and
  (6) Carry firearms while performing such officer's duties.
(b) Each special agent or enforcement officer shall file with the commissioner a public official's bond in the amount of $1,000.00, the cost of the bond to be borne by the department. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to relieve agents and officers, after making an arrest, from the duties imposed generally to obtain a warrant promptly and to return arrested persons without undue delay before a person authorized to examine, commit, or receive bail as required by general law.
(c) After a special agent or enforcement officer has accumulated 25 years of service with the department, upon leaving the department under honorable conditions, such special agent or enforcement officer shall be entitled as part of such officer's compensation to retain his or her weapon and badge pursuant to regulations promulgated by the commissioner.
(d) As used in this subsection, the term "disability" means a disability that prevents an individual from working as a law enforcement officer. When a special agent or enforcement officer leaves the department as a result of a disability arising in the line of duty, such special agent or enforcement officer shall be entitled as part of such officer's compensation to retain his or her weapon and badge in accordance with regulations promulgated by the commissioner.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 483,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 48, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 48, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 784, § 5, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 343, § 33, eff. 7/1/2003.
