# § 43-46-5. Registered agents for receipt of process, notice, or demands; procedure if no registered agent designated

(a) Any transient merchant required to have a registered agent under Code Section 43-46-3 shall file the name and permanent address of such registered agent with the clerk of the superior court of the county.
(b) Such registered agent shall be a resident of the county. Such agent may be served with any process, notice, or demand required or permitted by law to be served upon the transient merchant, in the same manner provided by law for the service of a summons and complaint.
(c) Such registered agent shall agree in writing to act as such agent and a copy of the agreement shall be filed with the license application.
(d) The clerk of the superior court shall maintain an alphabetical record of all transient merchants and the names and addresses of their registered agents.
(e) Whenever a transient merchant doing business or having done business in any county within this state shall fail to have or maintain a registered agent in the county, or whenever any such registered agent cannot with due diligence be found at his permanent address, the clerk of the superior court of said county shall be an agent of such transient merchant upon whom any such process, notice, or demand may be served. Service on the clerk of the superior court of any such process, notice, or demand shall be made by delivering to and leaving with him, or any person designated by the clerk of the superior court to receive such service, duplicate copies of such process, notice, or demand. In the event such process, notice, or demand is served on the clerk of the superior court, he shall immediately cause one of such copies to be forwarded by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the permanent address of said transient merchant. Any such service shall be answerable in not less than 30 days.
(f) Nothing contained in this Code section shall limit or affect the right to serve any process, notice, or demand in any other manner permitted by law.
