# § 43-37-3. Permanent records required; content

(a) Every dealer in precious metals or gems shall maintain a book, in permanent form, in which shall be entered at the time of each purchase of precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems the following:
  (1) The date and time of the purchase;
  (2) The name of the person making the purchase from the seller;
  (3) The name, age, and address of the seller of the items purchased and the distinctive number from such seller's driver's license or other similar identification card containing a photo of the seller;
  (4) A clear and accurate identification and description of the purchased goods, including the serial, model, or other number, and all identifying marks inscribed thereon;
  (5) The price paid for the goods purchased;
  (6) The number of the check issued for the purchase price, if payment is made by check; and
  (7) The signature of the seller.
(b) The permanent record book required by this Code section shall be in legible English. Entries shall appear in chronological order. No blank lines may be left between entries. No obliterations, alterations, or erasures may be made. Corrections shall be made by drawing a line of ink through the entry without destroying its legibility. The book shall be maintained for each purchase of precious metals or gems or goods made from precious metals or gems for at least two years. The book shall be open to the inspection of any duly authorized law enforcement officer during the ordinary hours of business or at any reasonable time.
(c) Dealers exclusively engaged in buying or exchanging for merchandise scrap dental gold and silver from licensed dentists by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery may record the post office record of the mailed parcel in lieu of the seller's age and driver's license number as required in paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section and in lieu of the seller's signature as required in paragraph (7) of subsection (a) of this Code section.
