# § 40-1-22. Definitions

(1) "Anhydrous ammonia" means the materials identified as "ammonia, anhydrous," or "ammonia solutions with more than 50 percent ammonia and relative density less than 0.880 at 15 degrees Centigrade in water," in federal hazardous materials regulations contained in Title 49 C.F.R.
(2) "C.F.R." means the United States Code of Federal Regulations, as it may be amended from time to time in the Federal Register.
(3) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of public safety.
(4) "Department" means the Department of Public Safety.
(5) "Liquefied natural gas" or "LNG" means methane or natural gas in the form of a cryogenic or refrigerated liquid, as identified in federal hazardous materials regulations contained in Title 49 C.F.R.
(6) "Permit" means an instrument of whatever character or nature including, but not limited to, electronic format, issued by the department pursuant to this article.
(7) "Person," in addition to the meaning provided in paragraph (43) of Code Section 40-1-1, means and includes any individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, political subdivision of a state, and any agency or instrumentality of the United States government, or any other entity and includes any officer, agent, or employee of any of the above, who offers, ships, or carries a hazardous material in the furtherance of a commercial or business enterprise, whether or not such transportation is for-hire, or who manufactures, fabricates, marks, maintains, reconditions, repairs, or tests packages designed, used, or intended for the transportation of hazardous materials.
(8) "Polychlorinated biphenyl" or "PCB" has the same meaning as the material identified in federal hazardous materials regulations contained in Title 49 C.F.R.
(9) "Radioactive material" has the same meaning as the term is used in federal hazardous materials regulations contained in Title 49 C.F.R.
(10) "Regulatory compliance inspection" means the examination of facilities, property, buildings, vehicles, equipment, drivers, employees, cargo, packaging, records, books, or supporting documentation kept or required to be kept in the normal course of offering or transporting hazardous materials, or in the normal course of manufacturing, fabricating, marking, maintaining, reconditioning, repairing, or testing packages designed, used, or intended for the transportation of hazardous materials.
(11) "Shipper" means any person who arranges for, provides for, solicits a carrier for, consigns to a carrier for, or contracts with a carrier for shipment or transport of goods, property, or persons. The terms "shipper" and "offeror" are synonymous.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 119,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2011.
