# § 40-1-190. Definitions

(1) "Limousine carrier" means any limousine company or provider which is licensed with the state pursuant to paragraph (5) of Code Section 40-1-151.
(2) "Metering device" means an instrument or device which is utilized for the purpose of calculating for-hire fares based upon distance, time, mileage, and administrative fees and which is not a taximeter.
(3) "Ride share driver" means an individual who uses his or her personal passenger car to provide transportation for passengers arranged through a ride share network service.
(4) "Ride share network service" means any person or entity that uses a digital network or internet network to connect passengers to ride share drivers for the purpose of prearranged transportation for hire or for donation. The term "ride share network service" shall not include any corporate sponsored vanpool or exempt rideshare as such terms are defined in Code Section 40-1-100, provided that such corporate sponsored vanpool or exempt rideshare is not operated for the purpose of generating a profit.
(5) "Taxi service" means any taxicab company or provider which utilizes a motor vehicle or similar vehicle, device, machine, or conveyance to transport passengers; uses a taximeter; and is authorized to provide taxicab services pursuant to an ordinance of a local government in this state.
(6) "Taximeter" means an instrument or device approved by the applicable local government which is utilized by a taxi service for the purpose of calculating fares based upon distance, time, and mileage.
(7) "Transportation referral service" means any person or entity that books, refers clients to, collects money for, or advertises transportation services provided by a limousine carrier or taxi service by means of a telephone, through cellular telephone software, through the Internet, in person, by written instrument, by any person, or by any other means, and does not own or lease any motor vehicle required to be registered with the Department of Public Safety as a limousine carrier or a taxi service. A transportation referral service shall not include emergency or nonemergency medical transports.
(8) "Transportation referral service provider" means any person or entity that books, refers clients to, collects money for, or advertises transportation services provided by a limousine carrier or taxi service by means of a telephone, through cellular telephone software, through the Internet, in person, by written instrument, by any person, or by any other means and owns or leases one or more motor vehicles required to be registered with the Department of Public Safety as a limousine carrier or a local government in this state as a taxi service. A transportation referral service provider shall not include emergency or nonemergency medical transports.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 195,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
