# § 40-1-195. Inclusion of license number in advertising; display of signage or emblem

(a) Each taxi service, transportation referral service, transportation referral service provider, and ride share network service doing business, operating, or providing transportation services in this state shall include its license number issued by the department in any advertising in this state; provided, however, that this Code section shall not apply to Internet advertisements. Limousine carriers which register as transportation referral service providers under this part shall be subject to the advertising requirements of this Code section and not the provisions of Code Section 40-1-165. Failure to provide such license number shall result in the imposition of a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000.00 for each violation.
(b) Each ride share driver shall display a consistent and distinctive signage or emblem that is approved by the Department of Public Safety on such ride share driver's vehicle at all times while the ride share driver is active on the ride share network service's digital network. The signage or emblem shall be:
  (1) Sufficiently large and color contrasted to be readable during daylight hours from a distance of at least 50 feet;
  (2) Reflective, illuminated, or otherwise visible in darkness; and
  (3) Sufficient to identify a vehicle as being associated with the ride share network service with which the ride share driver is affiliated. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 40, eff. 5/3/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 195,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
