# § 40-1-151. Definitions

(1) "Certificate" or "limousine carrier certificate" means a certificate issued by the department for the operation of limousines or limousine services under this part and such certificates issued by the Public Service Commission on or before June 30, 2012.
(2) "Chauffeur" means any person with a Georgia state driver's license who meets the qualifications as prescribed in this part and who is authorized by the commissioner of driver services to drive a motor vehicle of a limousine carrier.
(3) "Department" means the Department of Public Safety.
(4) "Limousine" means any motor vehicle that meets the manufacturer's specifications for a luxury limousine with a designed seating capacity for no more than ten passengers and with a minimum of five seats located behind the operator of the vehicle, and which does not have a door at the rear of the vehicle designed to allow passenger entry or exit; further, no vehicle shall be permitted to be operated both as a taxicab and a limousine.
(5) "Limousine carrier" means any person owning or operating a prearranged service regularly rendered to the public by furnishing transportation as a motor carrier for hire, not over fixed routes, by means of one or more unmetered:
  (A) Limousines;
  (B) Extended limousines;
  (C) Sedans;
  (D) Extended sedans;
  (E) Sport utility vehicles;
  (F) Extended sport utility vehicles;
  (G) Other vehicles with a capacity for seating and transporting no more than 15 persons for hire including the driver; or
  (H) Any combination of subparagraphs (A) through (G) of this paragraph on the basis of telephone contract or written contract. A limousine carrier shall not use per capita rates or charges.
(6) "Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, private or public corporation, company, association, or joint-stock association, and includes any trustee, receiver, assignee, or personal representative thereof.
(7) "Public highway" means every public street, road, highway, or thoroughfare of any kind in this state.
(8) "Vehicle" or "motor vehicle" means any vehicle, machine, tractor, trailer, or semitrailer propelled or drawn by mechanical power and used upon the highways in the transportation of passengers or property, or any combination thereof, determined by the commissioner.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 268,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 40, eff. 4/24/2013.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 632,§ I-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
