# § 40-1-104. Revocation, alteration, or amendment of certificate or permit; suspension; out-of-service orders

(a) The commissioner may, at any time after notice and opportunity to be heard and for reasonable cause, revoke, alter, or amend any motor carrier certificate or permit, if it shall be made to appear that the holder of the certificate has willfully violated or refused to observe any of the lawful and reasonable orders, rules, or regulations prescribed by the commissioner or any of the provisions of this part or any other law of this state regulating or taxing motor vehicles, or both, or if in the opinion of the commissioner the holder of the certificate is not furnishing adequate service.
(b) The commissioner may, at any time, after reasonable attempt at notice, immediately suspend any motor carrier certificate or permit, if the commissioner finds such suspension necessary:
  (1) To protect life, health, or safety;
  (2) For the protection of consumers; or
  (3) Based upon a finding that the carrier no longer meets the qualification or fitness requirements of Code Section 40-1-103 or 40-1-106. Certificate holders affected by such suspension may appeal to the commissioner for review pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." The commissioner may exercise his or her discretion to designate a hearing officer for such appeals.
(c) The commissioner, or his or her designated employees, may issue an out-of-service order or orders to a certificate or permit holder, pursuant to the provisions of this article or the department's rules.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 268,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 40, eff. 4/24/2013.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 632,§ I-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
