# § 40-1-24. Enforcement; use of funds; regulatory compliance inspections by others; examination of facilities

(a) The commissioner is authorized to employ such persons as may be necessary, in the discretion of the commissioner, for the proper enforcement of this article, as provided for in this article and Chapter 2 of Title 35. It is the intent of the General Assembly, subject to the appropriations process, that funds derived under this article shall be used to further the department's hazardous materials transportation safety programs; provided, however, that the department shall retain those funds derived specifically for inspection or escort.
(b) The commissioner is vested with police powers and authority to designate, deputize, and delegate to employees of the commissioner the necessary authority to enforce this article, including the power to stop and inspect all motor vehicles using the public highways and to enter upon and inspect shipper and carrier facilities for purposes of determining whether such vehicles and facilities have complied with and are complying with the provisions of this article and all other laws regulating the use of the public highways by motor vehicles, and to arrest all persons found in violation thereof, and to issue out-of-service orders to carriers, vehicles, and drivers in accordance with criteria which shall be established or adopted by the commissioner.
(c) As designated by the commissioner, by way of agreement, members of county, municipal, campus, and other state agencies may only perform regulatory compliance inspections of vehicles, drivers, and cargo in operation, and enforce the provisions of this article and rules and regulations promulgated hereunder subject to the terms and conditions of that agreement.
(d) The commissioner is vested with powers to designate, deputize, and delegate to employees of the department the necessary authority to enter upon and examine the facilities where hazardous materials are filled, offered, shipped, or stored incidental to transportation, or where packages are manufactured, fabricated, marked, maintained, reconditioned, repaired, or tested for purposes of regulatory compliance inspections for determining compliance with this article and other laws the administration or enforcement of which is the responsibility of the department.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 119,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2011.
