# § 40-1-194. Prohibited contracts and referrals

(a)
  (1)
    (A) No transportation referral service or transportation referral service provider subject to this part shall contract with, utilize, or refer individuals or entities to limousine carriers that are not properly licensed by this state or are not properly insured under state law.
    (B) No ride share network service subject to this part shall contract with, utilize, or refer individuals or entities to ride share drivers who are not properly licensed by this state or are not properly insured under state law.
  (2) No transportation referral service or transportation referral service provider subject to this part shall contract with, utilize, or refer individuals or entities to taxi services that are not registered with the department and properly licensed by the applicable political subdivision of this state, are not properly insured under local law, or use drivers that are not properly licensed under state and local law to carry passengers for hire.
(b)
  (1)
    (A) No person who is not licensed under the laws of this state to provide limousine services shall contract with or accept referrals from a transportation referral service, transportation referral service provider, or ride share network service for transportation services. This paragraph shall not apply to passengers.
    (B) No ride share driver who does not have an appropriate driver's license and either a for-hire endorsement or current private background check certification pursuant to Code Section 40-5-39 shall contract with or accept referrals from a transportation referral service, transportation referral service provider, or ride share network service for transportation services.
  (2) No person who does not have the licensing required by the appropriate local government of this state to provide taxi services shall contract with or accept referrals from a transportation referral service or transportation referral service provider for transportation services. This paragraph shall not apply to passengers.
(c)
  (1) A transportation referral service that violates subsection (a) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
  (2) A transportation referral service provider or ride share network service that violates subsection (a) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and additionally shall be subject to having such provider's or service's registration suspended or revoked by the department.
(d) A person who violates subsection (b) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and additionally may be subject to a suspension for one year or revocation of such person's driver's license.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 195,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
