# § 40-1-193.1. Registration of taxi services; list of drivers; additional requirements

(a) Each taxi service doing business or operating in this state shall register with the department. Upon receipt of registration by the department, the department shall issue a license to such taxi service which shall be renewed on an annual basis. The department may charge a fee for such license and registration not to exceed $100.00.
(b) Each taxi service doing business or operating in this state shall maintain a current list of all drivers utilized by such taxi service in this state, whether as employees or independent contractors. Such lists shall not be subject to inspection or disclosure under Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 but shall be made available for inspection by law enforcement officers and representatives of other government agencies upon request to ascertain compliance with this title.
(c) Each taxi service doing business or operating in this state shall:
  (1) Take all necessary steps to determine that each driver utilized by such taxi service, whether as an employee or independent contractor, possesses and maintains any required permits or licenses required by the federal government or this state;
  (2) Ensure that each driver utilized by such taxi service, whether as an employee or independent contractor, has a current for-hire license endorsement or current private background check certification pursuant to Code Section 40-5-39;
  (3) Have a zero tolerance policy with regard to the use of drugs or alcohol while on duty in place for drivers utilized by such taxi service, whether as an employee or independent contractor;
  (4) Obtain and maintain personal injury and property damage liability insurance, which shall provide for the protection of passengers and property carried and of the public against injury in the coverage amounts as required by law; and
  (5) Comply with the provisions of Code Section 40-8-7. No vehicle inspections shall be required for vehicles used by taxi services.
(d) The department or any county, municipality, or consolidated government may require proof of insurance or proof of payment of such insurance in the coverage amounts as required by law and may verify such insurance when issuing or renewing a certificate of public necessity and convenience or medallion.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 573,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2017.
