# § 40-1-117. Registered agents of nonresident motor carrier; service; venue and exclusions; covered farm vehicles

(a) Each nonresident motor carrier shall, before any certificate or permit is issued to it under this part or at the time of registering as required by Code Section 40-2-140, designate and maintain in this state an agent or agents upon whom may be served all summonses or other lawful processes in any action or proceeding against such motor carrier growing out of its carrier operations; and service of process upon or acceptance or acknowledgment of such service by any such agent shall have the same legal force and validity as if duly served upon such nonresident carrier personally. Such designation shall be in writing, shall give the name and address of such agent or agents, and shall be filed in the office of the state revenue commissioner. Upon failure of any nonresident motor carrier to file such designation with the state revenue commissioner or to maintain such an agent in this state at the address given, such nonresident carrier shall be conclusively deemed to have designated the Secretary of State and his or her successors in office as such agent; and service of process upon or acceptance or acknowledgment of such service by the Secretary of State shall have the same legal force and validity as if duly served upon such nonresident carrier personally, provided that notice of such service and a copy of the process are immediately sent by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, by the Secretary of State or his or her successor in office to such nonresident carrier, if its address be known. Service of such process upon the Secretary of State shall be made by delivering to his or her office two copies of such process with a fee of $10.00.
(b) Except in those cases where the Constitution requires otherwise, any action against any resident or nonresident motor carrier for damages by reason of any breach of duty, whether contractual or otherwise, or for any violation of this article or of any order, decision, rule, regulation, direction, demand, or other requirement established by the state revenue commissioner may be brought in the county where the cause of action or some part thereof arose; and if the motor carrier or its agent shall not be found for service in the county where the action is instituted, a second original may be issued and service be made in any other county where the service can be made upon the motor carrier or its agent. The venue prescribed by this Code section shall be cumulative of any other venue provided by law.
(c) Except in those cases where the Constitution requires otherwise, for the purposes of venue only, any truck engaged exclusively in the transportation of agricultural or dairy products, or both, between farm, market, gin, warehouse, or mill shall not be classified as a motor common or contract carrier.
(d)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "covered farm vehicle" means a motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating or gross vehicle weight, whichever is greater, of 26,000 pounds or less; or a motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating or gross vehicle weight that is greater than 26,000 pounds and which is traveling within the registered state or within 150 miles of the farm or ranch for which it is used. To qualify as a covered farm vehicle either type of motor vehicle listed in this paragraph must also be:
    (A) Registered in this or another state;
    (B) Operated by a farmer, rancher, or tenant under a crop share farm lease agreement or a family member or employee of a farmer, rancher, or crop share tenant;
    (C) Used primarily for the transportation of farm supplies, crops, livestock, or farm machinery; and
    (D) Not used in a for hire motor carrier operation; provided, however, that this requirement shall not apply to a motor vehicle operated under a tenant crop share agreement used primarily for transporting crops of the landlord.
  (2) A covered farm vehicle is not a motor carrier; provided, however, that any motor vehicle required by federal law to be designated as either a covered farm vehicle or a motor carrier shall be so designated as required by federal law.
  (3) A covered farm vehicle must be equipped with either a license plate or possess such other special designation issued by the state where such vehicle is registered and the license plate or special designation must indicate that such vehicle is a covered farm vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 268,§ 12, eff. 1/1/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 268,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2013.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 632,§ I-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
