# § 40-1-196. Rates charged

(a) Rates for taxi services set by a local government shall constitute the maximum fare which may be charged but shall not prohibit a taxi service from charging lower fares. Transportation services provided by taxi services and arranged by a transportation referral service or transportation referral service provider doing business in this state shall be billed in accordance with the fare rates prescribed by the local government where such taxi services are to be provided. The use of Internet or cellular telephone software to calculate rates shall not be permitted unless such software complies with and conforms to the weights and measures standards of the local government that licenses such taxi service.
(b) Transportation services provided by limousine carriers and arranged by a transportation referral service or transportation referral service provider shall only be billed in accordance with the rates of such limousine carriers on an hourly basis or upon one or more of the following factors: distance, flat fee, base fee, waiting time, cancellation fee, stop fee, event pricing, demand pricing, or time. The charge for such transportation services may be calculated by the use of a metering device in or affixed to the motor vehicle.
(c) A ride share driver contracted with a ride share network service may offer transportation services at no charge, suggest a donation, or charge a fare. If a ride share driver contracted with a ride share network service charges a fare, such fare shall be calculated based upon one or more of the following factors: distance, flat fee, base fee, waiting time, cancellation fee, stop fee, event pricing, demand pricing, or time. The fare may be calculated by the use of a metering device in or affixed to the motor vehicle.
(d) Each transportation referral service, transportation referral service provider, and ride share network service shall make available to the person being transported prior to receiving transportation services either the amount of the charge for such services or the rates under which the charge will be determined.
(e) A violation of this Code section shall be a misdemeanor.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 195,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
