# § 40-1-220. Definitions

(1) "Car-sharing delivery period" means the period of time during which a shared vehicle is being delivered to the location of the car-sharing start time, if applicable, as documented in the records of a peer-to-peer car-sharing program.
(2) "Car-sharing period" means the period of time that commences with the car-sharing delivery period or, if there is no car-sharing delivery period, the period of time that commences with the car-sharing start time and in either case ends at the car-sharing termination time.
(3) "Car-sharing program agreement" means the terms and conditions applicable to a shared vehicle owner and a shared vehicle driver that govern the use of a shared vehicle through a peer-to-peer car-sharing program. Such term shall not include a rental agreement as defined in Code Section 40-2-167 or a lease or rental as defined in paragraph (17) of Code Section 48-8-2.
(4) "Car-sharing start time" means the time when a shared vehicle becomes subject to the control of a shared vehicle driver at or after the time the reservation of a shared vehicle is scheduled to begin, as documented in the records of a peer-to-peer car-sharing program.
(5) "Car-sharing termination time" means the earliest of the following events:
  (A) The expiration of the agreed period of time established for the use of a shared vehicle according to the car-sharing program agreement if the shared vehicle is delivered to the location agreed upon in the car-sharing program agreement;
  (B) When a shared vehicle is returned to a location as alternatively agreed upon by the shared vehicle owner and shared vehicle driver as communicated through a peer-to-peer car-sharing program; or
  (C) When the shared vehicle owner takes possession and control of the shared vehicle.
(6) "Department" means the Department of Insurance of the State of Georgia established by Code Section 33-2-1.
(7) "Peer-to-peer car-sharing" means the authorized use of a vehicle by an individual other than the vehicle's owner through a peer-to-peer car-sharing program. Such term shall not include a rental motor vehicle or rental agreement as defined in Code Section 40-2-167.
(8) "Peer-to-peer car-sharing program" means a business platform that connects vehicle owners with drivers to enable the sharing of vehicles for financial consideration. Such term shall not mean a service provider who is solely providing hardware or software as a service to an individual or entity that is not effectuating payment of financial consideration for use of a shared vehicle. Such term shall not include a motor vehicle rental company as defined in Code Section 40-2-167.
(9) "Shared vehicle" means a used vehicle that is available for sharing through a peer-to-peer car-sharing program. Such term shall not include a rental motor vehicle as defined in Code Section 40-2-167.
(10) "Shared vehicle driver" means an individual who has been authorized by a shared vehicle owner to drive a shared vehicle under a car-sharing program agreement.
(11) "Shared vehicle owner" means the registered owner of a vehicle made available for sharing through a peer-to-peer car-sharing program or a person or entity designated by the registered owner of such a vehicle.
(12) "Used vehicle" means any vehicle which has been the subject of a sale at retail to the general public.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 488,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
