# § 40-1-231. Prerequisites for sharing vehicles; impact of safety recalls

(a) At the time a vehicle owner registers as a shared vehicle owner on a peer-to-peer car-sharing program and before the shared vehicle owner makes the vehicle available for sharing on such program, the peer-to-peer car-sharing program shall:
  (1) Verify that the shared vehicle does not have any safety recalls on the vehicle for which the repairs have not been made; and
  (2) Notify the shared vehicle owner of the requirements under subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b)
  (1) If the shared vehicle owner has received an actual notice of a safety recall on the vehicle, a shared vehicle owner may not make a vehicle available as a shared vehicle on a peer-to-peer car-sharing program unless and until such safety recall repair has been made.
  (2) If a shared vehicle owner receives an actual notice of a safety recall on a shared vehicle while the shared vehicle is made available on the peer-to-peer car-sharing program, the shared vehicle owner shall remove such shared vehicle as available on the peer-to-peer car-sharing program, as soon as practicably possible after receiving the notice of the safety recall and until the safety recall repair has been made.
  (3) If a shared vehicle owner receives an actual notice of a safety recall while the shared vehicle is being used in the possession of a shared vehicle driver, as soon as practicably possible after receiving such notice of the safety recall, the shared vehicle owner shall notify the peer-to-peer car-sharing program regarding such safety recall so that the shared vehicle owner may address the safety recall repair.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 488,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
