# § 43-10-1. Definitions

(1) "Barber apprentice" means an individual who practices barbering under the constant and direct supervision of a licensed master barber.
(2) "Barber II" means an individual who performs any one or more of the following services for compensation:
  (A) Shaving or trimming the beard;
  (B) Cutting or dressing the hair;
  (C) Giving facial or scalp massages; or
  (D) Giving facial or scalp treatment with oils or cream or other preparations made for this purpose, either by hand or by means of mechanical appliances. Such term shall not apply to an individual whose activities are limited to shampooing or blow-dry styling if an individual performs no other practices requiring a license under this chapter.
(3) "Barbering" means the occupation of shaving or trimming the beard, cutting or dressing the hair, giving facial or scalp massages, giving facial or scalp treatment with oils or cream or other preparations made for this purpose, either by hand or by means of mechanical appliances, singeing and shampooing the hair, coloring or dyeing the hair, or permanently waving, relaxing, or straightening the hair of an individual for compensation.
(4) "Beautician" means "cosmetologist" as such term is defined in this Code section.
(5) "Beauty shop" or "beauty salon" or "barber shop" means any premises where one or more individuals engage in barbering or in the occupation of a cosmetologist.
(5.1) "Blow-dry styling" means the practice of only shampooing, conditioning, drying, arranging, curling, straightening, or styling hair using only mechanical devices, hair sprays, and topical agents, such as balms, oils, and serums; provided, however, that such mechanical devices shall not include any flat irons or curling irons. Such term includes the use and styling of hair extensions, hair pieces, and wigs and excludes cutting hair or the application of dyes, bleach, reactive chemicals, keratin treatments, or other preparations to color or alter the structure of hair. Such practices are distinct from those performed by a barber II, hair designer, master barber, or master cosmetologist.
(6) "Board" means the State Board of Cosmetology and Barbers.
(7)
  (A) "Cosmetologist" means any individual who performs any one or more of the following services for compensation:
    (i) Cuts or dresses the hair;
    (ii) Gives facial or scalp massages or facial and scalp treatment with oils or cream or other preparations made for this purpose, either by hand or by means of mechanical appliances;
    (iii) Singes and shampoos the hair, colors or dyes the hair, or does permanent waving, relaxing, or straightening of the hair;
    (iv) Performs the services of a nail technician as defined in paragraph (12) of this Code section; or
    (v) Performs the services of an esthetician as defined in paragraph (8) of this Code section.
  (B) Such individual shall be considered as practicing the occupation of a cosmetologist within the meaning of this Code section; provided, however, that such term shall not mean an individual who only braids the hair by hairweaving; interlocking; twisting; plaiting; wrapping by hand, chemical, or mechanical devices; or using any natural or synthetic fiber for extensions to the hair, and no such individual shall be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
  (C) Such term shall not apply to an individual whose activities are limited to the following practices and no other practices requiring a license under this chapter:
    (i) The application of cosmetics;
    (ii) Shampooing; and
    (iii) Blow-dry styling.
(8) "Esthetician" or "esthetics operator" means an individual who, for compensation, engages in any one or a combination of the following practices, esthetics, or cosmetic skin care:
  (A) Massaging the face, neck, décolletage, or arms of an individual;
  (B) Trimming, tweezing, shaping, or threading eyebrows;
  (C) Dyeing eyelashes or eyebrows or applying eyelash extensions; or
  (D) Waxing, threading, stimulating, cleansing, or beautifying the face, neck, arms, torso, or legs of an individual by any method with the aid of the hands or any mechanical or electrical apparatus or by the use of a cosmetic preparation. Such practices of esthetics shall not include the diagnosis, treatment, or therapy of any dermatological condition or medical aesthetics or the use of lasers. Such term shall not apply to an individual whose activities are limited to the application of cosmetics.
(9) "Hair designer" means an individual who performs any one or more of the following services for compensation:
  (A) Cuts or dresses the hair; or
  (B) Singes and shampoos the hair, applies a permanent relaxer or straightener to the hair, or colors or dyes the hair. Such term shall not apply to an individual whose activities are limited to shampooing or blow-dry styling if an individual performs no other practices requiring a license under this chapter.
(9.1) "License" means a certificate of registration or other document issued by the board or by the division director on behalf of the board pursuant to the provisions of this chapter permitting an individual to practice in an occupation or operate a school.
(10) "Master barber" means an individual who performs any one or more of the following services for compensation:
  (A) Shaving or trimming the beard;
  (B) Cutting or dressing the hair;
  (C) Giving facial or scalp massages;
  (D) Giving facial or scalp treatment with oils or cream or other preparations made for this purpose, either by hand or by means of mechanical appliances; or
  (E) Singeing and shampooing the hair, coloring or dyeing the hair, or permanently waving, relaxing, or straightening the hair. Such term shall not apply to an individual whose activities are limited to shampooing and blow-dry styling if an individual performs no other practices requiring a license under this chapter.
(11) "Master cosmetologist" means a cosmetologist who is possessed of the requisite skill and knowledge to perform properly all the services set forth in paragraph (7) of this Code section for compensation.
(12) "Nail technician" means an individual who, for compensation, performs manicures or pedicures or who trims, files, shapes, decorates, applies sculptured or otherwise artificial nail extensions, or in any way cares for the nails of another individual.
(13) "Person" means any individual, proprietorship, partnership, corporation, association, or other legal entity.
(14) "School of barbering" means any establishment that receives compensation for training more than one individual in barbering. Technical colleges whose programs have been approved by the Technical College System of Georgia or the Department of Education are not "schools of barbering" within the meaning of this chapter; provided, however, that all such colleges and their programs shall be considered to be "board approved."
(15) "School of cosmetology" means any establishment that receives compensation for training more than one individual in the occupation of a cosmetologist. Technical colleges whose programs have been approved by the Technical College System of Georgia or the Department of Education are not "schools of cosmetology" within the meaning of this chapter; provided, however, that all such colleges and their programs shall be considered to be "board approved."
(16) "School of esthetics" means any establishment that receives compensation for training more than one individual in the occupation of an esthetician. Technical colleges whose programs have been approved by the Technical College System of Georgia or the Department of Education are not "schools of esthetics" within the meaning of this chapter; provided, however, that all such colleges and their programs shall be considered to be "board approved."
(17) "School of hair design" means any establishment that receives compensation for training more than one individual in the occupation of a hair designer. Technical colleges whose programs have been approved by the Technical College System of Georgia or the Department of Education are not "schools of hair design" within the meaning of this chapter; provided, however, that all such colleges and their programs shall be considered to be "board approved."
(18) "School of nail care" means any establishment that receives compensation for training more than one individual in the occupation of a nail technician. Technical colleges whose programs have been approved by the Technical College System of Georgia or the Department of Education are not "schools of nail care" within the meaning of this chapter; provided, however, that all such colleges and their programs shall be considered to be "board approved."

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 556,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 531,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 199,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 905,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 337, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
