# § 43-10-14. Study by individuals 16 years of age and older; registration of apprentices; registration certificate; waiver of education requirements

(a) Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any individual at least 16 years of age from learning the occupation of a cosmetologist under a master cosmetologist, provided that such cosmetologist has had at least 36 months' experience and has held a certificate of registration as a master cosmetologist for at least 36 months. In addition, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any individual at least 16 years of age from learning the occupation of a cosmetologist under an instructor in a school of cosmetology who has been a cosmetologist for a period of at least one year and has registered under this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any individual at least 16 years of age from learning the occupation of hair designer under a cosmetologist holding a master cosmetologist certificate of registration or a certificate of registration as a hair designer, provided that such cosmetologist has had at least 36 months' experience or, under an instructor in a school of cosmetology or school of hair design who has held a certificate of registration as a cosmetologist for a period of at least one year, is qualified to teach such practices and has registered under this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any individual at least 16 years of age from learning the occupation of esthetics under a cosmetologist holding a master cosmetologist certificate of registration or a certificate of registration as an esthetician, provided that such cosmetologist has had at least 36 months' experience or, under an instructor in a school of cosmetology or school of esthetics who has held a certificate of registration as a cosmetologist for a period of at least one year, is qualified to teach said practices and has registered under this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any individual at least 16 years of age from learning the occupation of a nail technician under a cosmetologist holding a master cosmetologist certificate of registration or a nail technician certificate of registration, provided that such cosmetologist has had at least 36 months' experience or, under an instructor in a school of cosmetology or school of nail care who has held a certificate of registration as a cosmetologist for a period of at least one year, is qualified to teach such practices and has registered under this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any individual at least 16 years of age from learning barbering under a barber holding a master barber certificate of registration, provided that such master barber has had at least 18 months' experience or under an instructor in a school of barbering who has held a certificate of registration as a master barber for a period for at least one year, is qualified to teach said practices, and has registered under this chapter.
(b) Every beauty shop, beauty salon, and barber shop owner shall have the responsibility for registering apprentices with the division director. The shop of salon owner shall file a statement in writing, showing the apprentice's name and the address of the shop. The board shall have the authority to require the shop or salon owner or master cosmetologist, hair designer, esthetician, nail technician, or master barber who is supervising the apprentice to furnish to the board the number of hours completed by the apprentice. The shop or salon owner shall remit to the division director a fee in such amount as shall be set by the board by regulation for the registration of the apprentice. The apprentice shall receive a certificate of registration showing the capacity in which he or she is permitted to practice barbering or the occupation of a cosmetologist. The certificate of registration shall be effective for a period of four years. A certificate of registration authorizing a person to learn barbering or the occupation of a cosmetologist under a cosmetologist, master cosmetologist, hair designer, esthetician, nail technician, or master barber shall not be renewed; and, upon the expiration of certificate of registration issued, such person shall not be permitted to practice in any capacity.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this Code section, the board shall be authorized to waive any education requirements under this Code section in cases of hardship, disability, or illness or under such other circumstances as the board deems appropriate with respect to any applicant who was enrolled in a board approved school or had completed a board approved study course.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 199,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 560,§ 1, eff. 4/21/2014.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 905,§ 10, eff. 5/5/2006.
Amended by 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX7, § 3, eff. 9/15/2001.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 337, §4, eff. 7/1/2001.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 366, §3, eff. 7/1/2001.
