# § 43-10-9. Application for certificate of registration

(a)
  (1) Any individual desiring to obtain a certificate of registration to enable him or her to engage in the occupation of a cosmetologist shall make application through the division director to the board and shall present proof that he or she has obtained a high school diploma, a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma, or a postsecondary education or college degree. If, after review of the application, it is determined that the applicant is at least 17 years of age; has met the minimum educational requirements; has completed a 1,500 credit hour study course with at least nine months at a board approved school or has served as an apprentice in a beauty shop, beauty salon, or barber shop for a period of at least 3,000 credit hours; has practiced or studied the occupation of a cosmetologist; is possessed of the requisite skill in such occupation to perform properly all the duties of the occupation, including his or her ability in the preparation of tools, in performing the services mentioned in paragraph (7) of Code Section 43-10-1, and in all the duties and services incident thereto; and has passed both a written and a practical examination approved by the board, a certificate of registration shall be issued to him or her entitling him or her to practice as a master cosmetologist.
  (2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subsection, the board shall allow endorsement to an applicant who submits a complete application, along with a fee, and verification that he or she holds an active license or certificate of registration as a cosmetologist or an instructor or teacher of the occupation of a cosmetologist at that level in another state or territory of the United States. The board may establish requirements for endorsement by rules and regulations.
(b)
  (1) Any individual desiring to obtain a certificate of registration to enable him or her to engage in the occupation of a hair designer shall make application through the division director and shall present proof that he or she has obtained a high school diploma, a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma, or a postsecondary education or college degree. If, after review of the application, it is determined that the applicant is at least 17 years of age; has met the minimum educational requirements; has completed a 1,325 credit hour study course with at least seven months at a board approved school or has served as an apprentice in a beauty shop, beauty salon, or barber shop for a period of at least 2,650 credit hours; has practiced or studied the occupation of a hair designer; is possessed of the requisite skill in such occupation to perform properly all the duties of the occupation, including his or her ability in the preparation of tools, in performing the services mentioned in paragraph (9) of Code Section 43-10-1, and in all the duties and services incident thereto; and has passed both a written and a practical examination approved by the board, a certificate of registration shall be issued to him or her entitling him or her to practice the occupation of a hair designer.
  (2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subsection, the board shall allow endorsement to an applicant who submits a complete application, along with a fee, and verification that he or she holds an active license or certificate of registration as a hair designer or an instructor or teacher of the occupation of a hair designer in another state or territory of the United States. The board may establish requirements for endorsement by rules or regulations.
(c)
  (1) Any individual desiring to obtain a certificate of registration to enable him or her to engage in the occupation of an esthetician shall make application through the division director to the board and shall present proof that he or she has obtained a high school diploma, a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma, or a postsecondary education or college degree. If, after review of the application, it is determined that the applicant is at least 17 years of age; has met the minimum educational requirements; has completed a 1,000 credit hour study course of at least nine months at a board approved school or has served as an apprentice in a beauty shop, beauty salon, or barber shop for a period of at least 2,000 credit hours; has practiced or studied cosmetic skin care as defined in paragraph (8) of Code Section 43-10-1; is possessed of the requisite skill to perform properly these services; and has passed a written and a practical examination approved by the board, a certificate of registration shall be issued to the applicant entitling the applicant to practice the occupation of an esthetician.
  (2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subsection, the board shall allow endorsement to an applicant who submits a complete application, along with a fee, and verification that he or she holds an active license or certificate of registration as an esthetician or an instructor or teacher of the occupation of an esthetician in another state or territory of the United States. The board may establish requirements for endorsement by rules or regulations.
(d)
  (1) Any individual desiring to obtain a certificate of registration to enable him or her to engage in the occupation of a nail technician shall make application through the division director to the board and shall present proof that he or she has obtained a high school diploma, a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma, or a postsecondary education or college degree. If, after review of the application, it is determined that the applicant is at least 17 years of age; has met the minimum educational requirements; has completed a 525 credit hour study course of at least four months at a board approved school or has served as an apprentice in a beauty shop, beauty salon, or barber shop for a period of at least 1,050 credit hours; has practiced or studied nail care as defined in paragraph (12) of Code Section 43-10-1; is possessed of the requisite skill to perform properly these services; and has passed both a written and a practical examination approved by the board, a certificate of registration shall be issued to the applicant entitling the applicant to practice the occupation of nail technician.
  (2) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subsection, the board shall allow endorsement to an applicant who submits a complete application, along with a fee, and verification that he or she holds an active license or certificate of registration as a nail technician or an instructor or teacher of the occupation of a nail technician in another state or territory of the United States. The board may pass requirements for endorsement by rule.
(e)
  (1) Any person desiring to obtain a certificate of registration to enable him or her to engage in the occupation of a master barber shall make application through the division director to the board and shall present proof that he or she has obtained a high school diploma, a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma, or a postsecondary education or college degree. If, after review of the application, it is determined that the applicant is at least 16 years of age; has met the minimum educational requirements; has completed a 1,500 credit hour study course of at least nine months at a board approved school or has served as an apprentice in a beauty shop, beauty salon, or barber shop for a period of at least 3,000 credit hours; has practiced or studied barbering; is possessed of the requisite skill to perform properly these services; and has passed both a written and a practical examination approved by the board, a certificate of registration shall be issued to the applicant entitling the applicant to practice barbering as a master barber.
  (2) Any person desiring to obtain a certificate of registration to enable him or her to engage in the occupation of a barber II shall make application through the division director to the board and shall present proof that he or she has obtained a high school diploma, a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma, or a postsecondary education or college degree. If, after review of the application, it is determined that the applicant is at least 16 years of age; has met the minimum educational requirements; has completed a 1,140 credit hour study course of at least seven months at a board approved school or has served as an apprentice in a beauty shop, beauty salon, or barber shop for a period of at least 2,280 credit hours; has practiced or studied barbering; is possessed of the requisite skill to perform properly these services; and has passed both a written and a practical examination approved by the board, a certificate of registration shall be issued to the applicant entitling the applicant to practice the occupation of barbering at the barber II level.
  (3) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this subsection, the board shall allow endorsement to an applicant who submits a complete application, along with a fee, and verification that he or she holds an active license or certificate of registration as a master barber or barber II or an instructor or teacher of barbering in another state or territory of the United States. The board may establish requirements for endorsement by rules and regulations.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed as preventing an individual from obtaining a certificate of registration for the occupation of a cosmetologist at the master level, the hair design level, the esthetician level, or the nail technician level or a certificate of registration for barbering at the master level or barber II level, if such person obtains his or her credit hour study at a State Board of Education approved school or a technical college under the jurisdiction of the Technical College System of Georgia or the Department of Education rather than at a board approved school.
(g)
  (1) An individual issued a certificate of registration as a master cosmetologist in this state shall be eligible to take the master barber examination provided for in this Code section if that person completes a board approved 300 hour prescribed course in an approved cosmetology school, submits a completed application, and pays the proper fees established by the board.
  (2) An individual issued a certificate of registration as a master barber in this state shall be eligible to take the master cosmetologist examination provided for in this Code section if that person completes a board approved 300 hour prescribed course in an approved cosmetology school, submits a completed application, and pays the proper fees established by the board.
(h)
  (1) On and after July 1, 2015, but prior to July 1, 2018, any individual applying for a certificate of registration pursuant to this Code section shall pass both a board approved written and practical examination within a 24 month period after having obtained the required credit hours or shall be required to repeat all of such required credit hours before retaking the examinations. Should an applicant fail to pass either the written or practical examination, the board or the board's designee shall furnish the applicant a statement in writing, stating in what manner the applicant was deficient.
  (2) On and after July 1, 2018, any individual applying for a certificate of registration pursuant to this Code section shall pass both a board approved written and practical examination within a 48 month period after having obtained the required credit hours or shall be required to repeat all of such required credit hours before retaking the examinations. Should an applicant fail to pass either the written or practical examination, the board or the board's designee shall furnish the applicant a statement in writing, stating in what manner the applicant was deficient. Board members may attend and observe all written and practical examinations held for licenses or certificates of registration pursuant to this Code section.
(i) On and after July 1, 2015, any applicant applying for a certificate of registration pursuant to this Code section who has graduated from an educational program which prepares cosmetologists in another country shall submit to the board a credentials evaluation from a board approved credentials evaluation provider along with his or her application. Upon the board's acceptance of the credentials evaluation, application, and appropriate fee, the applicant shall be approved to sit for the board approved examination, and upon passing the examination, he or she may be approved for a certificate of registration.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 726,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 43, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 146,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 531,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 43, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 199,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 906,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 905,§ 5, eff. 5/5/2006.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 43, eff. 4/18/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 337, §2, eff. 7/1/2001.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 366, §1, eff. 7/1/2001.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, §43, eff. 2/12/2001.
