# § 43-10-6. Rules and regulations as to sanitary requirements; instruction on HIV and AIDS; inspections; unsanitary condition as nuisance

(a) The board is authorized to adopt reasonable rules and regulations prescribing the sanitary requirements of beauty shops, beauty salons, barber shops, schools of cosmetology, schools of esthetics, schools of hair design, schools of nail care, and schools of barbering and to cause the rules and regulations or any subsequent revisions to be in suitable form; provided, however, that nothing in this chapter shall prevent a county or municipal corporation from adopting ordinances, rules, or regulations governing a business or occupational tax license or certificate; health or facility regulations; zoning; local licensing; or the operation of such shops, salons, or schools in addition to any requirements that may be imposed on such shops, salons, or schools under this chapter or by the board. The board shall make its rules and regulations available to the proprietor of each beauty shop, beauty salon, barber shop, school of cosmetology, school of esthetics, school of hair design, school of nail care, and school of barbering. It shall be the duty of every proprietor or person operating a beauty shop, beauty salon, barber shop, school of cosmetology, school of esthetics, school of hair design, school of nail care, and school of barbering in this state to keep a copy of such rules and regulations posted in a conspicuous place in such business, so as to be easily read by customers thereof. Posting such rules and regulations by electronic means shall be allowed.
(b) The board is authorized to adopt reasonable rules and regulations requiring that individuals issued licenses under this chapter undergo instruction on human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) and acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS).
(c) Any investigator or inspector employed by the Secretary of State shall have the power to enter and make reasonable examination of any beauty shop, beauty salon, barber shop, school of cosmetology, school of hair design, school of esthetics, school of nail care, or school of barbering in the state during business hours; during hours advertised by a shop, salon, or school as being open; and during hours a shop, salon, or school is open as indicated by the presence of patrons for the purpose of enforcing the rules and regulations of the board and for the purpose of ascertaining the sanitary conditions thereof.
(d) Any beauty shop, beauty salon, barber shop, school of cosmetology, school of hair design, school of esthetics, school of nail care, and school of barbering in which tools, appliances, and furnishings used therein are kept in an unclean and unsanitary condition so as to endanger health is declared to be a public nuisance.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 43, eff. 5/2/2022.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 531,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 199,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 19, eff. 5/20/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 905,§ 3, eff. 5/5/2006.
