# § 43-10-2. State Board of Cosmetology and Barbers; members, meetings, officers, and powers

(a) There is created the State Board of Cosmetology and Barbers. The board shall consist of nine members who shall be residents of this state. The board shall have the duty of carrying out and enforcing this chapter.
(b) Members of the board shall be at least 25 years of age and have obtained a high school diploma, a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma, or a postsecondary education or college degree. Two of such members must have had at least five years of practical experience as a cosmetologist at the master level, a portion of which must have been as a beauty shop or beauty salon owner or manager. One member of the board must have had at least five years of practical experience as a cosmetologist at the esthetician level. One member of the board must have had at least five years of practical experience as a nail technician. Two members of the board must have had at least five years of practical experience as a master barber. One member must be an instructor at a school of barbering. One member must be an instructor at school of cosmetology. One member shall not have any connection with barbering or the practice of a cosmetologist or any business related thereto whatsoever but shall have a recognized interest in consumer affairs and in consumer protection concerns.
(c) The board shall meet as necessary each year for the purpose of adopting rules and regulations and handling other matters pertaining to duties of the board. Board members may attend and observe all written and practical examinations held for certificates of registration pursuant to this chapter.
(d) Beginning on July 1, 2015, the Georgia State Board of Cosmetology and Barbers shall regulate barbering and the practice of cosmetologists in this state. The board shall operate under the rules and regulations of the Georgia State Board of Barbers and Georgia State Board of Cosmetology as they existed on June 30, 2015, until the board shall promulgate one set of rules and regulations governing both barbering and the practice of cosmetologists; such rules and regulations shall be adopted on or before July 1, 2016.
(e) Any person who holds a certificate of registration issued under this chapter or Chapter 7 of this title as they existed on June 30, 2015, shall not be required to undergo recertification under this chapter but shall otherwise be subject to all applicable provisions of this chapter. Such certificates of registration issued on or before June 30, 2015, shall be considered certificates of registration issued under and subject to this chapter for all purposes.
(f) Board members shall be appointed by the Governor for a term of three years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Vacancies shall be filled by the Governor for the unexpired portion of the term. The board may do all things necessary for carrying this chapter into effect and may, from time to time, promulgate necessary rules and regulations compatible with this chapter. The Governor may remove any board member for cause as provided in Code Section 43-1-17.
(g) Each year the members shall elect a chairman from among themselves. In the event the members cannot agree as to who shall be chairman, the Governor shall appoint one of such members as chairman. The members of the board shall be considered public officers and shall take the oath required thereof.
(h) The board shall adopt a seal to be used to authenticate all its official papers and acts and shall have power to subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and hear and take testimony in any matter over which it may have jurisdiction.
(i) All investigative and disciplinary authority of the Georgia State Board of Cosmetology and Georgia State Board of Barbers as such boards existed on June 30, 2015, shall carry over to the board. This authority shall include, but shall not be limited to, the ability to:
  (1) Enforce all fines issued by these boards or representatives thereof;
  (2) Enforce all orders entered by these boards; and
  (3) Access and keep all complaints, investigative records, and records of disciplinary deliberations of these boards.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 726,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 199,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 906,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 905,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2006.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 558, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 43, eff. 4/18/2002.
Amended by 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX7, §1, eff. 9/15/2001.
