# § 43-10-8. Certificate of registration required

(a) It shall be unlawful for any individual to pursue barbering or the occupation of cosmetology in this state unless he or she has first completed the required hours for and obtained the appropriate certificate of registration as provided in this chapter.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any individual to hold himself or herself out as a master cosmetologist without having first obtained a certificate of registration as a master cosmetologist which certifies that the holder thereof shall be authorized to perform all the services mentioned in paragraph (11) of Code Section 43-10-1. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit any individual who held a valid master cosmetologist license in this state on March 29, 1983, from practicing as a master cosmetologist.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any individual to hold himself or herself out as a master barber, barber II, barber instructor, or barber apprentice without having first obtained the certificate of registration for such.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, any individual desiring to perform solely hair design services shall be allowed to obtain a certificate of registration as a hair designer upon completing the required hours therefor, which certifies that the holder thereof shall be authorized to perform some or all of the services mentioned in paragraph (9) of Code Section 43-10-1.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, any individual desiring to perform solely cosmetic skin care services shall be allowed to obtain a certificate of registration as an esthetician level upon completing the required hours therefor, which certifies that the holder thereof shall be authorized to perform some or all of the services mentioned in paragraph (8) of Code Section 43-10-1.
(f) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, any individual desiring to perform solely cosmetic nail care services shall be allowed to obtain a certificate of registration as a nail technician level upon completing the required hours therefor, which certifies that the holder thereof shall be authorized to perform some or all of the services mentioned in paragraph (12) of Code Section 43-10-1.
(g)
  (1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, any current or discharged member of the military may apply to the board for the immediate issuance of a certificate of registration issued pursuant to this chapter, provided that such individual holds a license or certification from another state for which the training, experience, and testing substantially meet or exceed the requirements in this state to obtain the certificate of registration for which such individual is applying.
  (2) As used in this subsection, the term:
    (A) "Discharge" means an honorable discharge or a general discharge from active military service. The term "discharge" shall not mean a discharge under other than honorable conditions, a bad conduct discharge, or a dishonorable discharge.
    (B) "Military" means any regular or reserve component of the United States armed forces, the Georgia Army National Guard, or the Georgia Air National Guard.
(h) It shall also be unlawful for any person or persons to operate a beauty shop, beauty salon, barber shop, school of cosmetology, school of hair design, school of esthetics, school of nail care, or school of barbering without first having obtained a certificate of registration for such shop, salon, or school as provided in this chapter. Any beauty shop, beauty salon, barber shop, school of cosmetology, school of hair design, school of esthetics, school of nail care, or school of barbering shall register with the division director of the professional licensing boards prior to opening.
(i) This chapter shall have uniform application throughout the state so that no master cosmetologist, cosmetologist, hair designer, nail technician, esthetician, master barber, barber II, beauty shop, beauty salon, barber shop, school of cosmetology, school of hair design, school of esthetics, school of nail care, or school of barbering shall be exempt from regulation.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 607,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 199,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 43, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 905,§ 4, eff. 5/5/2006.
