# § 43-10-19. Penalty

(a) If any individual not lawfully entitled to a license under this chapter shall practice the occupation of a cosmetologist, hair designer, esthetician, nail technician, master barber, or barber II; or if any such individual shall endeavor to learn the trade of a cosmetologist, hair designer, esthetician, nail technician, master barber, or barber II by practicing the same under the instructions of a cosmetologist, hair designer, esthetician, nail technician, master barber, barber II, or other individual, other than as provided in this chapter; or if any such person shall instruct or attempt to instruct any individual in such trade; or if any proprietor of or person in control of or operating any beauty shop, beauty salon, school of cosmetology, school of hair design, school of esthetics, school of nail care, or school of barbering shall knowingly employ for the purpose of practicing such occupation any cosmetologist, hair designer, esthetician, nail technician, master barber, or barber II not licensed under this chapter; or if any person, beauty shop, beauty salon, barber shop, school of cosmetology, school of hair design, school of esthetics, school of nail care, or school of barbering shall engage in any of the acts covered in this chapter though not licensed under the provisions of this chapter; or if any individual shall falsely or fraudulently pretend to be qualified under this chapter to practice or learn such trade or occupation; or if any person shall violate any provision of this chapter for which a penalty is not specifically provided, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(b) Any person who operates or manages a beauty shop, salon, barber shop, or school of cosmetology, school of hair design, school of esthetics, school of nail care, or school of barbering that employs an individual who does not possess a license as provided in this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 531,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 199,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 905,§ 12, eff. 5/5/2006.
