# § 43-10-20. Teaching of barbering or the practice of a cosmetologist in prisons; certification of registration

(a) For the purposes of this chapter, the teachers and instructors of and courses of instruction or training in barbering or the practice of a cosmetologist operated by the Department of Corrections shall be considered to be subject to the same standards and to be part of the cosmetologist programs that are approved by the Technical College System of Georgia or the Department of Education as provided for by paragraphs (14) through (18) of Code Section 43-10-1 and paragraph (8) of subsection (e) of Code Section 43-10-12.
(b) The board shall be required to test an inmate who is an applicant for a certificate or registration under this chapter who has completed successfully a barber or cosmetologist training program operated by the Department of Corrections and who meets the requirements stated in Code Section 43-10-9. If such inmate passes the applicable written and practical examinations, the board may issue the appropriate certificate of registration to such inmate after consideration of all requirements under Code Sections 43-10-9 and 43-1-19; provided, however, that the board shall not apply the provisions of paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of Code Section 43-1-19 to such inmate based solely upon such person's status as an inmate and shall apply such provisions in the same manner as would otherwise be applicable to an applicant who is not an inmate.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 199,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 43, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2008.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 558, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
Former § 43-10-20 was repealed.
