# § 33-20A-37. Effect of favorable determinations

(a) A decision of the independent review organization in favor of the eligible enrollee shall be final and binding on the managed care entity and the appropriate relief shall be provided without delay. A managed care entity bound by such decision of an independent review organization shall not be liable pursuant to Code Section 51-1-48 for abiding by such decision. Nothing in this Code section shall relieve the managed care entity from liability for damages proximately caused by its determination of the proposed treatment prior to such decision.
(b) A determination by the independent review organization in favor of a managed care entity shall create a rebuttable presumption in any subsequent action that the managed care entity's prior determination was appropriate.
(c) In the event that, in the judgment of the treating health care provider, the health condition of the enrollee is such that following the provisions of Code Section 33-20A-36 would jeopardize the life or health of the eligible enrollee or the eligible enrollee's ability to regain maximum function, as determined by the treating health care provider, an expedited review shall be available. The expedited review process shall encompass all elements enumerated in Code Sections 33-20A-36 and 33-20A-40; provided, however, that a decision by the expert reviewer shall be rendered within 72 hours after the expert reviewer's receipt of all available requested documents.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 46, eff. 1/1/2013.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 399,§; 2, eff. 5/10/2005.
