# § 33-20A-35. Request for independent review

(a) In the event that the outcome of the grievance procedure under Code Section 33-20A-5 is adverse to the eligible enrollee, the managed care entity shall include with the written notice of the outcome of the grievance procedure a statement specifying that any request for independent review must be made to the department on forms developed by the department, and such forms shall be included with the notification. Such statement shall be in simple, clear language in boldface type which is larger and bolder than any other typeface which is in the notice and in at least 14 point typeface.
(b) An eligible enrollee must submit the written request for independent review to the department. Instructions on how to request independent review shall be given to all eligible enrollees with the written notice required under this Code section together with instructions in simple, clear language as to what information, documentation, and procedure are required for independent review.
(c) Upon receipt of a completed form requesting independent review as required by subsection (a) of this Code section, the department shall notify the eligible enrollee of receipt and assign the request to an independent review organization on a rotating basis according to the date the request is received.
(d) Upon assigning a request for independent review to an independent review organization, the department shall provide written notification of the name and address of the assigned organization to both the requesting eligible enrollee and the managed care entity.
(e) No managed care entity may be certified by the Commissioner under Article 1 of this chapter unless the entity agrees to pay the costs of independent review to the independent review organization assigned by the department to conduct each review involving such entity's eligible enrollees.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 399,§ 2, eff. 5/10/2005.
