# § 20-1-43. [Effective until 12/31/2026] Meetings; executive committee of voting members; expenses

(a) The council may conduct meetings at such places and times as it deems necessary or convenient to enable it to fully and effectively exercise its powers, perform its duties, and accomplish the objectives and purposes of this article; provided, however, that the council shall meet not less than four times per year. The council shall hold meetings at the call of the chairperson.
(b)
  (1) From among the members provided for in Code Section 20-1-42, five shall be designated as an executive committee of voting members of the council as follows:
    (A) One designated by the Governor;
    (B) One designated by the President of the Senate;
    (C) One designated by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
    (D) The member who is the representative of the State Board of Education appointed by the Governor as provided in subparagraph (a)(1)(C) of Code Section 20-1-42; and
    (E) The chairperson of the council, who shall serve as the chairperson of such executive committee.
  (2) A quorum for transacting business of the council shall be a majority of the voting members of the council provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(c) Legislative members of the council shall receive the allowances provided for in Code Section 28-1-8. Nonlegislative members of the council shall receive a daily expense allowance in the amount specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21 as well as the mileage or transportation allowance authorized for state employees. Members of the council who are state officials, other than legislative members, or state employees shall receive no compensation for their services on the council, but shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties as members of the council in the same manner as they are reimbursed for expenses in their capacities as state officials or state employees. The funds necessary for the reimbursement of the expenses of state officials, other than legislative members, and state employees shall come from funds appropriated to or otherwise available to their respective departments. All other funds necessary to carry out the provisions of this article shall come from funds appropriated to the Senate and the House of Representatives.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 461,§ 1, eff. 4/23/2024.
Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 8,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
