# § 20-1-30. Establishment of school policies on hazing; public disclosure of incidents; confidentiality of student information

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Hazing" shall have the same meaning as provided for under Code Section 16-5-61.
  (2) "School" shall have the same meaning as provided for under Code Section 16-5-61.
  (3) "School organization" shall have the same meaning as provided for under Code Section 16-5-61.
  (4) "Student" shall have the same meaning as provided for under Code Section 16-5-61.
(b) Not later than July 1, 2021, each school shall establish policies to facilitate the:
  (1) Reporting, investigation, provision of due process, and administrative adjudication of alleged incidents of hazing as related to students and student organizations; and
  (2) Public disclosure of administrative adjudications of hazing or hazing related convictions within 15 calendar days of final adjudication or public notice of criminal conviction.
(c) The public disclosure of each incident of hazing adjudicated pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, criminal convictions for hazing pursuant to Code Section 16-5-61, and other criminal convictions arising from any incident of hazing shall require the following minimum information be posted prominently on the school's website for a period of not less than five years after final adjudication or conviction:
  (1) The name of any school organization involved;
  (2) The date or dates on which the hazing occurred; and
  (3) A description of the specific hazing related findings, sanctions, adjudications, and convictions for any person or school organization.
(d) Public disclosure provided pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section shall not include the personal identifying information of any individual student and shall be subject to the requirements of the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA), 20 U.S.C. Section 1232g.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 20, eff. 5/2/2022.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 144,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
