# § 20-1-24. Disciplinary action for student of nonpublic educational institution

(a) Any student of a nonpublic educational institution who is convicted, under the laws of this state, the United States, or any other state, of any felony offense involving the manufacture, distribution, sale, possession, or use of marijuana, a controlled substance, or a dangerous drug shall as of the date of conviction be denied state funds for any loans, grants, or scholarships administered under the authority of Part 3 of Article 7 of Chapter 3 of this title, the "Georgia Student Finance Authority Act," or similar loans, grants, or scholarships, including, but not limited to, student incentive grants, or tuition equalization grants. The authority is authorized to define such terms and prescribe such rules, regulations, and procedures as may be reasonable and necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.
(b) Such denial of state funds shall be effective as of the first day of the term, quarter, semester, or other similar period for which the student was enrolled immediately following the date of conviction or the date on which the court accepts a plea of nolo contendere or formally allows a student to receive first offender treatment and shall continue through the end of such term, quarter, semester, or other similar period for which the student was enrolled. Any nonpublic educational institution operating within this state that receives state funds shall agree to comply with this article in order to be eligible for its students to receive state funds through scholarships, grants, or loan programs.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 399,§ 2-6, eff. 6/30/2024.
