# § 20-1-42. [Effective until 12/31/2026] Membership; terms; cooperation; Literacy Coach

(a) The council shall be composed of 30 members as follows:
  (1) The following members appointed by the Governor:
    (A) A representative from the Sandra Dunagan Deal Center for Early Language and Literacy;
    (B) A representative from the Office of Public Library Services of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia;
    (C) A representative from the State Board of Education;
    (D) Two individuals with knowledge, skills, and experience in birth to five-year-old early learning; and
    (E) Seven individuals with knowledge, skills, and experience in literacy or dyslexia education;
  (2) The following members appointed by the President of the Senate:
    (A) The chairperson of the Senate Education and Youth Committee;
    (B) The chairperson of the Senate Higher Education Committee;
    (C) The chairperson of the Senate Appropriations Committee;
    (D) Two members of the Senate from the minority caucus; and
    (E) Four individuals to include a teacher, a local board of education member, a local school superintendent, and a literacy advocate; and
  (3) The following members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives:
    (A) The chairperson of the House Committee on Education;
    (B) The chairperson of the House Committee on Higher Education;
    (C) The chairperson of the House Committee on Appropriations;
    (D) Two members of the House of Representatives from the minority caucus; and
    (E) Four individuals to include a teacher, a local board of education member, a local school superintendent, and a literacy advocate.
(b) Each nonlegislative member of the council shall be appointed to serve until his or her successor is duly appointed. Legislative members of the council shall serve until completion of their current terms of office. Any member may be appointed to succeed himself or herself on the council. If a member of the council is an elected or appointed official, such member, or his or her designee, shall be removed from the council if such member no longer serves as such elected or appointed official.
(c) The Governor shall designate one of the members appointed pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section the chairperson of the council. The council may elect other officers as it deems necessary. The chairperson of the council may designate and appoint committees from among the membership of the council as well as appoint other persons to perform such functions as he or she may determine to be necessary as relevant to and consistent with this article. The chairperson shall only vote to break a tie.
(d) The Governor shall direct the Alliance of Education Agency Heads provided for in Article 1 of Chapter 14 of this title to work with members of the council.
(e) The council shall be attached for administrative purposes only to the Office of Student Achievement. The Office of Student Achievement shall provide staff support for the council and shall hire an individual to serve as Georgia Literacy Coach who shall be responsible for coordination of such staff support and for working in coordination with the literacy related efforts of the Alliance of Education Agency Heads. The Office of Student Achievement shall use any funds specifically appropriated to support the work of the council for such purpose.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 8,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
