# § 20-1-22. Definitions

(1) "Authority" means the Georgia Student Finance Authority created pursuant to Code Section 20-3-313.
(2) "Controlled substance" means any drug, substance, or immediate precursor included in the definition of the term "controlled substance" in paragraph (4) of Code Section 16-13-21.
(3) "Convicted" or "conviction" refers to a plea of guilty, a finding of guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction, or the acceptance of a plea of nolo contendere or affording of first offender treatment by a court of competent jurisdiction, irrespective of the pendency or availability of any appeal or application for collateral relief.
(4) "Dangerous drug" means any drug or substance defined as such under Code Section 16-13-71.
(5) "Date of conviction" means the date that the trial court determines guilt and enters judgment thereon or the date on which the court accepts a plea of nolo contendere or formally allows a person to receive first offender treatment.
(6) "Marijuana" shall have the same meaning as such term is defined in paragraph (16) of Code Section 16-13-21.
(7) "Nonpublic educational institution" means any postsecondary educational institution not established, operated, or governed by the State of Georgia.
(8) "Public educational institution" means:
  (A) Any two-year college, college, university, or other institution of higher learning under the management and control of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia; and
  (B) Any postsecondary technical school under the management and control of the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia.
(9) "Student" means any person who is enrolled as a student in courses for academic credit on a full-time, part-time, temporary, or intermittent basis in any public or nonpublic educational institution.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
