# § 31-10-8. Certification to county treasurers of birth and death certificates and spontaneous fetal death reports filed; fees

(a) The local registrar shall certify to the treasurer of the county each month the number of birth and death certificates and spontaneous fetal death reports filed with the State Office of Vital Records with respect to the treasurer's county and the amount due. Upon certification, any fees due shall be paid by the county treasurer out of the general fund of the county.
(b) Each local registrar shall receive from the county treasurer the sum of $2.00 for each complete certificate of birth, death, or spontaneous fetal death report which occurred in that local registrar's county and is personally signed by that local registrar within the time prescribed by this chapter. A fee of 50¢ shall be paid for certificates or reports filed after the limits shown in this chapter except as noted by regulations adopted by the department.
(c) The local custodian of vital records shall be paid a fee of $1.00 for each birth and death certificate properly recorded and indexed. Said fee shall be paid from county funds by the county treasurer.
(d) Special abstractors shall be paid a fee of $2.00 for the complete filing of an abstract of evidence for a delayed certificate of birth or an amendment to a certificate of live birth which originates in the abstractor's county. Said fee shall be paid from county funds by the county treasurer.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code section, in counties where the local registrar or local custodian of vital records or special abstracting agent are employees of the county board of health, fees payable under this subsection shall be paid to the county health department monthly.
