# § 31-10-28. Institutions to keep vital records

(a) Every person in charge of an institution shall keep a record of personal data concerning each person admitted or confined to such institution. This record shall include such information as required for the certificates of birth and death and the reports of spontaneous fetal death and induced termination of pregnancy required by this chapter. The record shall be made at the time of admission from information provided by the person being admitted or confined but, when it cannot be so obtained, the information shall be obtained from relatives or other persons acquainted with the facts. The name and address of the person providing the information shall be a part of the record.
(b) When a dead body or dead fetus is released or disposed of by an institution, the person in charge of the institution shall keep a record showing the name of the decedent or parents of the fetus, date of death, name and address of the person to whom the body or fetus is released, and the date of removal from the institution. If final disposition is made by the institution, the date, place, and manner of disposition shall also be recorded.
(c) A funeral director, embalmer, sexton, or other person who removes from the place of death, transports, or makes final disposition of a dead body or fetus, in addition to filing any certificate or other report required by this chapter or regulations promulgated hereunder, shall keep a record which shall identify the body and such information pertaining to receipt, removal, delivery, burial, or cremation of such body as may be required by regulations adopted by the department.
(d) Records maintained under this Code section shall be retained for a period of not less than three years and shall be made available for inspection by the state registrar or the state registrar's representative upon demand.
