# § 31-10-21. Record of marriage licenses

(a) A record of each marriage performed in this state shall be filed with the department and shall be registered if it has been completed and filed in accordance with this Code section.
(b) The official who issues the marriage license shall cause to be prepared the record on the application supplement-marriage report form, including at a minimum the information set out in subsection (b) of Code Section 19-3-33, upon the basis of information obtained from both of the parties to be married.
(c) A person who performs a marriage shall certify the fact of marriage and return the license to the official who issued the license within ten days after the ceremony. The license shall be completed as prescribed by regulations of the department.
(d) Every official issuing marriage licenses shall complete and forward to the department on or before the tenth day of each calendar month an application supplement-marriage report form for each marriage license returned to such official during the preceding calendar month. Such forms may be transmitted in the form of paper or electronically.
(e) The official issuing a marriage license shall keep the original of the application and license for the county records from which the official may issue certified copies but need not retain the prepared application supplement-marriage report forms except to the extent necessary for transmission of such forms to the registrar and confirmation of transmission or receipt.
(f) In addition to the fee provided by Code Section 15-9-60, the official shall be entitled to a filing fee of $1.00 to be paid by the applicant upon application for the marriage license.
