# § 31-10-5. Duties and powers of state registrar; delegation of functions and duties

(a) The state registrar shall:
  (1) Administer and enforce the provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations issued under this chapter and issue instructions for the efficient administration of the State Office of Vital Records;
  (2) Direct and supervise the State Office of Vital Records and be custodian of its records;
  (3) Direct, supervise, and control the activities of all persons when they are engaged in activities pertaining to the operation of the State Office of Vital Records;
  (4) Conduct training programs to promote uniformity of policy and procedures throughout the state in matters pertaining to the State Office of Vital Records;
  (5) Prescribe, furnish, and distribute such forms as are required by this chapter and the rules and regulations issued under this chapter or prescribe such other means for transmission of data as will accomplish the purpose of complete and accurate reporting and registration;
  (6) Prepare and publish in print or electronically reports of vital statistics of this state and such other reports as may be required by the department; and
  (7) Provide to local health agencies copies of or data derived from certificates and reports required under this chapter, as the state registrar shall determine are necessary for local health planning and program activities. The state registrar shall establish a schedule with each local health agency for transmittal of the copies or data. The copies or data shall remain the property of the department, and the uses which may be made of them shall be governed by the state registrar.
(b) The state registrar may establish or designate offices in the state to aid in the efficient administration of the State Office of Vital Records.
(c) The state registrar may delegate such functions and duties vested in the state registrar to employees of the State Office of Vital Records and to employees of any office established or designated under subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 522, § 3, eff. 7/1/2004.
