# § 31-10-13. Certificates of adoption

(a) For each adoption decreed by a court of competent jurisdiction in this state, the court shall require the preparation of a report of adoption on a form prescribed and furnished by the state registrar. The report shall include such facts as are necessary to locate and identify the original certificate of birth of the person adopted; shall provide information necessary to establish a new certificate of birth of the person adopted; and shall identify the order of adoption and be certified by the clerk of court.
(b) Information necessary to prepare the report of adoption shall be furnished by the petitioner for adoption or the petitioner's attorney. The appropriate agency or any person having knowledge of the facts shall supply the court with such additional information as may be necessary to complete the report. The provision of such information shall be prerequisite to the issuance of a final decree in the matter by the court.
(c) Whenever an adoption decree is amended or annulled, the clerk of the court shall prepare a report thereof, which shall include such facts as are necessary to identify the original adoption report and the facts amended in the adoption decree as shall be necessary to amend the birth record properly.
(d) Not later than the fifteenth day of each calendar month or more frequently, as directed by the state registrar, the clerk of the court shall forward to the state registrar reports of decrees of adoption, annulment of adoption, and amendments of decrees of adoption which were entered in the preceding month, together with such related reports as the state registrar shall require.
(e) When the state registrar shall receive a certificate of adoption, report of annulment of adoption, or amendment of a decree of adoption of a person born outside this state, the state registrar shall forward such certificate or report to the state registrar in the indicated state of birth.
(f) The following shall apply to certificates of birth of adopted persons born in a foreign country:
  (1) If a person was born in a foreign country, is not a citizen of the United States, and does not meet the requirements of the federal Child Citizenship Act of 2000, P.L. 106-395, 114 Stat. 1631, but was adopted through a court in this state, the state registrar shall prepare and register a certificate in this state. The certificate shall be established upon receipt of a report of adoption from the court decreeing the adoption and proof of the date and place of birth of the child. The certificate shall be labeled "Certificate of Foreign Birth" and shall show the actual country of birth. A statement shall also be included on the certificate indicating that it is not evidence of United States citizenship for the person for whom it is issued. After registration of the birth certificate in the new name of the adopted person, the state registrar shall seal and file the report of adoption which shall not be subject to inspection except upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction or as provided by statute;
  (2) If a person was born in a foreign country and was not a citizen of the United States at the time of birth but meets the requirements of the federal Child Citizenship Act of 2000, P.L. 106-395, 114 Stat. 1631, and was adopted through a court in this state, the state registrar shall prepare and register a certificate in this state. The certificate shall be established upon receipt of a report of adoption from the court decreeing the adoption and proof of the date and place of birth of the child. The certificate shall be labeled "Certificate of Foreign Birth" and shall show the actual country of birth. After registration of the birth certificate in the new name of the adopted person, the state registrar shall seal and file the report of adoption which shall not be subject to inspection except upon order of a court of competent jurisdiction or as provided by statute; and
  (3) If a person was born in a foreign country and was a citizen of the United States at the time of birth, the state registrar shall not prepare a "Certificate of Foreign Birth" and shall notify the adoptive parents of the procedure for obtaining a revised birth certificate for their child through the United States Department of State.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 207, § 9, eff. 7/1/2003.
