# § 43-11A-3. Definitions

(1) "Advertise" means, but is not limited to, the issuing of or causing to be distributed any card, sign, or other device or the causing or permitting any sign or marking on or in any building or structure or in any newspaper, magazine, or directory or announcement on radio or announcement or display on television.
(2) "Applicant" means any person seeking a license under this chapter.
(3) "Board" means the Georgia Board of Examiners of Licensed Dietitians established by this chapter.
(4) "Dietetic practice" or "dietetics" means the integration and application for compensation of principles derived from the sciences of nutrition, biochemistry, food, physiology, management, and behavioral and social sciences to achieve and maintain client health through the provision of nutrition care services, which shall include:
  (A) Assessing the nutritional needs of individuals and groups based upon appropriate biochemical, anthropometric, physical, and dietary data to determine nutrient needs and recommend appropriate intake including enteral and parenteral nutrition;
  (B) Establishing priorities, goals, and objectives which meet nutritional needs and are consistent with available resources;
  (C) Providing dietetic nutrition counseling by advising and assisting individuals or groups on appropriate nutritional intake by integrating information from the nutritional assessment with information on food and other sources of nutrients and meal preparation consistent with cultural background and socioeconomic status;
  (D) Developing, implementing, and managing nutrition care delivery systems; and
  (E) Evaluating, making changes in, and maintaining standards of quality in food and nutrition care services. As used in this chapter, the terms "dietetic practice," "dietetics," and "medical nutrition therapy" are interchangeable.
(5) "Dietitian" means a person duly licensed under this chapter to practice dietetics. As used in this chapter, the terms "dietitian" and "dietetic counselor" are interchangeable.
(6) "Provisionally licensed dietitian" means a person provisionally licensed under this chapter.
(7) "Registered dietitian" means a person registered by the Commission on Dietetic Registration of the American Dietetic Association.
