# § 43-11A-4. Creation of Georgia Board of Examiners of Licensed Dietitians

(a) There is created the Georgia Board of Examiners of Licensed Dietitians. The board shall consist of seven members as follows:
  (1) Six members shall be dietitians with at least one member from each of the following areas of dietetic practice: clinical dietetics; community or public health dietetics; an educator on the faculty of a college or university specializing in the field of dietetics; and the private practice of dietetics; and
  (2) One member shall represent the public at large.
(b) The Georgia Board of Examiners of Licensed Dietitians existing immediately prior to July 1, 1994, is continued in existence and shall continue to consist of seven members to be appointed by the Governor with the confirmation of the Senate. Members of the board shall take office on the first day of July immediately following the expired terms of that office and shall serve for a term of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Those persons serving as members of the board immediately prior to July 1, 1994, shall continue to serve out their respective terms of office and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Any person appointed to the board when the Senate is not in session may serve on the board without Senate confirmation until the Senate acts on that appointment. No member shall serve on the board for more than two consecutive terms. Any vacancy shall be filled by the Governor subject to confirmation of the Senate.
(c) All members of the board shall be reimbursed as provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 43-1-2.
(d) All members of the board shall take the constitutional oath of office.
