# § 43-7A-3. Georgia Behavior Analyst Licensing Board; membership; terms; vacancy; expenses; meetings

(a) The Georgia Behavior Analyst Licensing Board is hereby established. The board shall be composed of five members appointed by the Governor.
(b)
  (1) The initial board members shall include:
    (A) Three members each of whom are either a board certified behavior analyst or a board certified behavior analyst-doctoral and who are eligible for licensure under this chapter. Such members shall apply for licensure as soon as feasible after appointment;
    (B) One member who is a board certified assistant behavior analyst who is eligible for licensure under this chapter. Such member shall apply for licensure as soon as feasible after appointment; and
    (C) One public member who:
      (i) Is not a licensed behavior analyst or a licensed assistant behavior analyst or the spouse of such person;
      (ii) Has never been in the practice of applied behavior analysis or the spouse of such person; and
      (iii) Does not have and has never had a material interest in the practice of applied behavior analysis.
  (2) Subsequent board members shall include:
    (A) Three licensed behavior analysts;
    (B) One licensed assistant behavior analyst; and
    (C) One public member who:
      (i) Is not a licensed behavior analyst or a licensed assistant behavior analyst or the spouse of such person;
      (ii) Has never been in the practice of applied behavior analysis or the spouse of such person; and
      (iii) Does not have and has never had a material interest in the practice of applied behavior analysis.
(c) Members shall serve three-year terms and until their successors are duly appointed and qualified; provided, however, that initial terms shall be staggered so that one member serves an initial term of one year, two members serve initial terms of two years, and two members serve initial terms of three years, as designated by the Governor. No member shall be appointed to more than two consecutive three-year terms.
(d) A vacancy on the board for any reason other than expiration of the term shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term by appointment of the Governor.
(e) Members of the board shall receive the expense allowance as provided by subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21 and the same mileage allowance for the use of a personal car as that received by other state officials and employees or a travel allowance of actual transportation cost if traveling by public carrier within this state for attendance at board meetings.
(f) The board shall meet at least twice annually and may meet at such other times as necessary, at the call of the chair or by a majority of the members, as necessary to transact its business. Such meetings may be conducted in-person, by telephone, by virtual means, or any combination thereof.
(g) Three members of the board shall constitute a quorum.
(h) The board shall annually elect a chairperson from among its membership and such other officers as deemed necessary.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 811,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
