# § 43-7A-2. Definitions

(1) "Applied behavior analysis" means the design, implementation, and evaluation of systematic instructional and environmental modifications by a behavior analyst, to produce socially significant improvements in behavior.
(2) "Behavior technician" means a paraprofessional who practices under the extended authority, close and ongoing supervision, and responsibility of a licensed behavior analyst or licensed assistant behavior analyst and delivers services as assigned by such licensee but does not design assessment or intervention plans or procedures.
(3) "Board" means the Georgia Behavior Analyst Licensing Board created pursuant to this chapter.
(4) "Board certified" means a certification issued by a certifying entity to a practitioner of applied behavior analysis demonstrating that such practitioner meets specific requirements.
(5) "Certifying entity" means the Behavior Analyst Certification Board, Inc., or its successor, or another entity that conducts programs to certify professional practitioners of behavior analysis that are accredited by the National Commission on Certifying Agencies or the American National Standards Institute as identified by the board.
(6) "Licensed assistant behavior analyst" means an individual who is licensed pursuant to this chapter to practice as an assistant behavior analyst.
(7) "Licensed behavior analyst" means an individual who is licensed pursuant to this chapter to practice as a behavior analyst.
(8) "Practice of applied behavior analysis" means the design, implementation, and evaluation of instructional and environmental modifications to produce socially significant improvements in human behavior. Such term includes the empirical identification of functional relations between behavior and environmental factors, known as functional assessment and analysis; interventions based on scientific research and direct and indirect observation and measurement of behavior and the environment; and the utilization of contextual factors, motivating operations, antecedent stimuli, positive reinforcement, and other consequences to help people develop new behaviors, increase or decrease existing behaviors, and emit behaviors under specific environmental conditions. Such term expressly excludes psychological testing, diagnosis of a mental or physical disorder, psychotherapy, cognitive therapy, psychoanalysis, and counseling.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 811,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
