# § 43-7A-5. Application and fees for licensure; renewal

(a) Each person desiring to obtain a license pursuant to this chapter shall submit an application and applicable fees to the board. An application shall furnish satisfactory evidence demonstrating that the applicant:
  (1) Is of good moral character;
  (2) Conducts his or her professional activities in accordance with accepted professional and ethical standards and guidelines for responsible conduct for behavior analysts established by a certifying entity; and
  (3) Has received satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for the issuance of a license under this chapter shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board or its representative to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. Such applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check.
(b) An applicant to be a licensed behavior analyst shall furnish satisfactory evidence demonstrating that the applicant:
  (1) Has successfully passed a behavior analyst examination conducted by a certifying entity;
  (2) Holds a master's degree based on applied behavior analysis coursework in an approved sequence; and
  (3) Maintains active status as a board certified behavior analyst.
(c) An applicant to be a licensed assistant behavior analyst shall furnish satisfactory evidence demonstrating that the applicant:
  (1) Has successfully passed an assistant behavior analyst examination conducted by a certifying entity;
  (2) Holds a bachelor's degree based on applied behavior analysis coursework in an approved sequence;
  (3) Maintains active status as a board certified assistant behavior analyst; and
  (4) Will have ongoing supervision by a licensed behavior analyst in a manner consistent with the certifying entity's requirements for supervision of board certified assistant behavior analysts.
(d) The board shall issue and renew licenses to qualified applicants no later than 90 days after receipt of a complete application or renewal application.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 811,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
