# § 25-11-5. Fire protection sprinkler contractor license

(a) Where a fire protection sprinkler contractor has multiple office locations for the purpose of design, installation, repair, alteration, addition, maintenance, or inspection of water-based fire protection systems, each location shall be licensed under the provisions of this chapter.
(b) Any organization or individual desiring to become a fire protection sprinkler contractor shall submit to the Commissioner a completed application on forms prescribed by him or her. Such organization or individual shall remit with his or her application a nonrefundable license fee of $100.00 plus a one-time filing fee of $75.00. Such fee shall not be prorated for portions of a year.
(c) Prior to obtaining a sprinkler contractor's license, the applicant shall:
  (1) Submit to the Commissioner a copy of any and all certificate of competency holders' certificates employed by the applicant; and
  (2) Submit to the Commissioner proof of comprehensive liability insurance coverage. The liability insurance policy shall provide coverage in an amount not less than $1 million and shall cover any loss to property or personal injury caused by the fire protection sprinkler contractor. The policy must be purchased from an insurer authorized to do business in Georgia.
(d) A fire protection sprinkler contractor license shall expire annually as determined by the rules and regulations. A license holder desiring to renew his or her license shall submit a renewal application to the Commissioner and remit a renewal fee of $75.00 on or before the date determined by the rules and regulations of each year.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-53, eff. 5/12/2010.
