# § 25-11-2. Definitions

(1) "Certificate" or "certificate of competency" means the document issued by the Commissioner to a certificate holder who has demonstrated adequate technical knowledge and ability to design in accordance with recognized standards as adopted by the Commissioner and to perform and supervise the installation, repair, alteration, addition, maintenance, or inspection of water-based fire protection systems.
(2) "Certificate holder" means an individual who has been issued a certificate of competency by the Commissioner.
(3) "Commissioner" means the Georgia Safety Fire Commissioner.
(4) "Fire protection sprinkler contractor" means an individual, partnership, corporation, association, or joint venture that supervises, performs, or supervises and performs the installation, repair, alteration, addition, maintenance, or inspection of water-based fire protection systems. Such term does not include local building officials, fire inspectors, or insurance inspectors when acting in their official capacities.
(5) "Fire protection sprinkler contractor license" means the document issued by the Commissioner to the fire protection sprinkler contractor which authorizes the fire protection sprinkler contractor to engage in the business of fabrication, installation, repair, alteration, maintenance, or inspection of water-based fire protection systems.
(6) "Fire protection sprinkler system" means an integrated system of overhead and underground piping designed in accordance with fire protection engineering standards. The installation includes one or more automatic water supplies. The portion of the system aboveground is a network of specially sized or hydraulically designed piping installed in a building, structure, or area, generally overhead, to which sprinklers are attached in a systematic pattern. The valve controlling each system riser is located in the system riser or its supply piping. The system is usually activated by heat from a fire and discharges water over the fire area.
(7) "Fire protection system designer" means a person who develops documents pertaining to water-based fire protection systems.
(8) "Fire protection system designer license" means a document issued by the Commissioner which authorizes the fire protection system designer to engage in the business of producing construction shop drawings pertaining to water-based fire protection systems.
(9) "Fire protection system inspector" means an individual who performs inspections only on water-based fire protection systems in accordance with applicable codes and standards as adopted by the Commissioner. Such term does not apply to state, local, and insurance inspectors while acting in their official capacities.
(10) "Fire protection system inspector's license" means a document issued by the Commissioner which authorizes the fire protection system inspector to engage in the business of inspecting water-based fire protection systems.
(11) "Fire pump" means a pump supplying water at the flow and pressure required by water-based fire protection systems.
(12) "Foam-water spray system" means a special system pipe connected to a source of foam concentrate and to a water supply and equipped with foam-water spray nozzles for fire protection agent discharge (foam and water sequentially in that order or in reverse order) and distribution over the area to be protected. System operation arrangements parallel those for foam-water sprinkler systems.
(13) "Foam-water sprinkler system" means a special system pipe connected to a source of foam concentrates and to a water supply and equipped with appropriate discharge devices for fire protection agent discharge and distribution over the area to be protected. The piping system is connected to the water supply through a control valve that is usually actuated by operation of automatic detection equipment installed in the same area as the sprinklers. When this valve opens, water flows into the piping system, and foam concentrate is injected into the water. The resulting foam solution discharging through the discharge devices generates and distributes foam. Upon exhaustion of the foam concentrate supply, water discharge will follow the foam and continue until manually shut off. Existing deluge sprinkler systems that have been converted to the use of aqueous film forming foam are classified as foam-water sprinkler systems.
(14) "Inspection" means a visual examination of a water-based fire protection system or portion thereof to verify that it appears to be in operating condition and is free of physical damage.
(15) "Maintenance" means work performed to keep equipment operable or to make repairs without altering the operation of the water-based system.
(16) "Private fire service main" means that pipe and its appurtenances on private property that are:
  (A) Between a source of water and the base of the system riser for water-based fire protection systems;
  (B) Between a source of water and inlets to foam-making systems;
  (C) Between a source of water and the base elbow of private hydrants or monitor nozzles;
  (D) Used as fire pump suction and discharge piping outside of a building; and
  (E) Beginning at the inlet side of the check valve on a gravity or pressure tank.
(17) "Private water tank" means a tank supplying water for water-based fire protection systems which is located on private property.
(18) "Standpipe system" means an arrangement of piping, valves, hose connections, and allied equipment installed in a building or structure with the hose connections located in such a manner that water can be discharged in streams or spray patterns through attached hoses and nozzles for the purpose of extinguishing a fire, thus protecting a building or structure, its contents, and its occupants. This is accomplished by connection to water supply systems or by pumps, tanks, and other equipment necessary to provide an adequate supply of water-to-hose connections.
(19) "Testing" means a procedure to determine the status of a system as intended by conducting periodic physical checks on water-based fire protection systems such as waterflow tests, fire pump tests, alarm tests, and trip tests of dry pipe, deluge, or preaction valves. These tests follow up on the original acceptance test at intervals specified in the appropriate standards related to such systems.
(20) "Water-based fire protection system" means any one system or any combination of a number of systems designed to deliver water to an apparatus designed to extinguish or retard the advancement of fire. Such systems include fire protection sprinkler systems, standpipe systems, private fire service mains, fire pumps, private water tanks, water spray fixed systems, foam-water spray systems, and foam-water sprinkler systems. The term "fire sprinkler system" is used interchangeably with this term.
(21) "Water-spray fixed system" means a special fixed pipe system connected to a reliable fire protection water supply and equipped with water-spray nozzles for specific water discharge and distribution over the surface or area to be protected. The piping system is connected to the water supply through an automatically or manually activated valve that initiates the flow of water. An automatic valve is actuated by operation of automatic detection equipment installed in the same area as the water-spray nozzles.
