# § 25-11-8. Requirement that installation, repair, or other work be performed or supervised by certificate holder

(a) No person shall act as a fire protection sprinkler contractor unless a certificate holder is employed full time, in office or on site or combination thereof, to supervise or perform the installation, repair, alteration, addition, maintenance, or inspection of water-based fire protection systems.
(b) If the only certificate holder employed by a fire protection sprinkler contractor leaves the employment of the fire protection contractor, the contractor shall notify the Commissioner in writing within 30 days. A new certificate holder must be employed by a fire protection sprinkler contractor within 30 days of such notice.
(c) No fire protection sprinkler contractor shall permit any person under his or her employment or control to install, repair, alter, maintain, or inspect any water-based fire protection system unless such person is a certificate holder or is under the direct supervision of a certificate holder employed by the contractor.
(d) Only fire protection sprinkler contractors or certificate of competency holders shall alter or renovate water-based fire protection systems except as otherwise provided by this chapter.
(e) Individuals employed by the building owner or a representative of the building owner may repair leaks, replace broken fittings, or perform other routine maintenance that does not alter the piping arrangement or operation of a water-based fire protection system.
(f) Installations shall conform to codes as adopted by the Commissioner unless otherwise permitted by this chapter or the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
(g) It shall be unlawful for any person to begin installation of a fire sprinkler system on any proposed or existing building or structure which comes under the classification in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 25-2-13 or which comes under the jurisdiction of the office of the Commissioner of Insurance pursuant to Code Section 25-2-12 without first having drawings of the designed system approved by the appropriate authority having jurisdiction unless otherwise provided by the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 25, eff. 3/13/2015.
