# § 25-11-6. Fire protection system inspector license

(a) Any individual desiring to become a fire protection system inspector shall submit to the Commissioner a completed application on the prescribed forms. Such individual shall remit with his or her application a nonrefundable license fee of $100.00 plus a one-time filing fee of $75.00. Such fees shall not be prorated for portions of a year.
(b) Prior to obtaining a license, the applicant shall demonstrate his or her competence and employment by a sprinkler contractor by:
  (1) Successfully completing a competency test by means prescribed by rules and regulations as adopted and promulgated by the Commissioner; and
  (2) Submitting to the Commissioner proof of employment by a sprinkler contractor who has comprehensive liability insurance coverage. The liability insurance policy shall provide coverage in an amount not less than $1 million and shall cover any loss to property or personal injury caused by the fire protection system inspector. The policy must be purchased from an insurer authorized to do business in Georgia.
(c) A fire protection system inspector license shall expire annually as determined by the rules and regulations. A license holder desiring to renew his or her license shall submit a renewal application to the Commissioner and remit a renewal fee of $75.00 on or before the date determined by the rules and regulations of each year.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-54, eff. 5/12/2010.
