# § 43-46A-1. Definitions

(1) "Pathogen" means a microorganism, including bacteria, viruses, rickettsiae, and parasites, or other agent, such as a proteinaceous infectious particle or prion, that can cause disease in humans.
(2) "Potentially infectious material" means material known or reasonably expected to contain a pathogen.
(3) "Regulated biomedical waste" means and includes the following:
  (A) Biological waste, which includes blood and blood products, exudates, secretions, suctionings, and other body fluids which contain free liquids and cannot be or are not directly discarded into a municipal sewer system;
  (B) Pathological waste, which includes all recognizable human tissues and body parts except teeth; and
  (C) Sharps, which include any discarded article that may cause punctures or cuts, including, but not limited to, items such as needles, IV tubing and syringes with needles attached, and scalpel blades.
(4) "Trauma scene" means a location soiled by or contaminated with potentially infectious material or regulated biomedical waste due to the occurrence of a homicide or suicide, or the occurrence of a death of a human being in which there is advanced decomposition of the body; provided, however, that this term shall not include the scene of a motor vehicle accident or locations which are subject to the laws and regulations of the federal Occupational Safety and Health Administration.
(5) "Trauma scene waste" means potentially infectious material or regulated biomedical waste that has been removed, is to be removed, or is in the process of being removed from a trauma scene.
(6) "Trauma scene waste management practitioner" means the owner of any interest in a commercial enterprise for the cleanup or removal of trauma scene waste and who is registered with the Secretary of State pursuant to this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 43, eff. 5/10/2021.
Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 566,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2021.
