# § 48-7A-3. Eligibility, amount, and claims for low-income tax credit

(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (e) of this Code section, each resident taxpayer who files an individual income tax return for a taxable year and who is not claimed or is not otherwise eligible to be claimed as a dependent by another taxpayer for federal or Georgia individual income tax purposes may claim a tax credit against the resident taxpayer's individual income tax liability for the taxable year for which the individual income tax return is being filed; provided that:
  (1) A husband and wife filing a joint return shall each be deemed a dependent for purposes of such joint return; and
  (2) A husband and wife filing separate returns for a taxable year for which a joint return could have been filed by them shall claim only the tax credit to which they would have been entitled had a joint return been filed.
(b) Each taxpayer may claim a tax credit in the amount indicated for each adjusted gross income bracket as shown in the schedule below multiplied by the number of dependents which the taxpayer is entitled to claim. Each taxpayer 65 years of age or over may claim double the tax credit. TAX CREDIT SCHEDULEAdjusted Gross IncomeTax CreditUnder $6,000.00......................................................$ 26.006,000.00 but not more than 7,999.00...................................20.008,000.00 but not more than 9,999.00....................................14.0010,000.00 but not more than 14,999.00...................................8.0015,000.00 but not more than 19,999.00...................................5.00
(c) The tax credit claimed by a resident taxpayer pursuant to this Code section shall be deductible from the resident taxpayer's individual income tax liability, if any, for the tax year in which it is properly claimed; provided, however, that in no event shall the total amount of the tax credit under this Code section for a taxable year exceed the taxpayer's income tax liability. Any unused credit amount shall not be allowed to be carried forward to the taxpayer's succeeding years' tax liability. No such credit shall be allowed the taxpayer against prior years' tax liability.
(d) All claims for a tax credit under this Code section, including any amended claims, must be filed on or before the end of the twelfth month following the close of the taxable year for which the credit may be claimed. Failure to comply with this subsection shall constitute a waiver of the right to claim the credit.
(e) Any individual who receives a food stamp allotment for all or any part of a taxable year shall not be entitled to claim a credit under this Code section for that taxable year.
(e.1) Any individual incarcerated or confined in any city, county, municipal, state, or federal penal or correctional institution for all or any part of a taxable year shall not be entitled to claim a credit under this Code section for that taxable year.
(f) The commissioner shall be authorized by rule and regulation to provide for the proper administration of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 679,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 48, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 495, § 7, eff. 5/13/2004.
