# § 32-2-65. Advertising for bids

(a) On all contracts required to be let by public bid, the commissioner shall advertise for competitive bids for at least two weeks; the public advertisement shall be inserted once a week in such newspapers or other publications, or both, as will ensure adequate publicity, the first insertion to be at least two weeks prior to the opening of bids, the second to follow one week after the publication of the first insertion; provided, however, that the advertisement requirement provided in this Code section shall be satisfied by posting the required information on the department's website for the required time period.
(b) Such advertisement shall include but not be limited to the following items:
  (1) A description sufficient to enable the public to know the approximate extent and character of the work to be done;
  (2) The time allowed for performance;
  (3) The terms and time of payment, including a statement that final payment of amounts withheld or deposited in escrow need not be made until the issuance of the chief engineer's certification of satisfactory completion of work and acceptance thereof, as provided in Code Sections 32-2-75 through 32-2-77;
  (4) Where and under what conditions and costs the detailed plans and specifications and proposal forms may be obtained;
  (5) The amount of the required proposal guaranty, if one is required;
  (6) The time and place for submission and opening of bids;
  (7) The right of the department to reject any one or all bids; and
  (8) Such further notice as the department may deem advisable as in the public interest.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 241,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 407,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2018.
