# § 32-2-22. Definitions; responsibilities of director and Planning Division; approval of program and plan

(a) As used in this chapter and in Article 2 of Chapter 5 of this title, the term:
  (1) "Director" means the director of planning provided for by Code Section 32-2-43.
  (2) "Division" means the Planning Division of the department provided for by paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of Code Section 32-2-41.
  (3) "Metropolitan planning organization" means the forum for cooperative transportation decision making for a metropolitan planning area.
  (4) "Metropolitan transportation plan" means the official intermodal transportation plan that is developed and adopted through the metropolitan transportation planning process for a metropolitan planning area.
  (5) "Nonmetropolitan area" means a geographic area outside the designated metropolitan planning areas.
  (5.1) "State-wide freight and logistics implementation plan" means the plan established pursuant to Code Section 32-2-41.4.
  (6) "State-wide strategic transportation plan" means the official, intermodal, comprehensive, fiscally constrained transportation plan which includes projects, programs, and other activities to support implementation of the state's strategic transportation goals and policies. This plan and the process for developing the plan shall comply with 23 C.F.R. Section 450.104.
  (7) "State-wide transportation improvement program" means a state-wide prioritized listing of transportation projects covering a period of four years that is consistent with the state-wide strategic transportation plan, metropolitan transportation plans, and transportation improvement programs and required for multi-modal projects to be eligible for funding under Title 23 U.S.C. and Title 49 U.S.C. Chapter 53.
  (8) "Transportation improvement program" means a prioritized listing of transportation projects covering a period of four years that is developed and formally adopted by a metropolitan planning organization as part of the metropolitan transportation planning process, consistent with the metropolitan transportation plan, and required for projects to be eligible for funding under Title 23 U.S.C. and Title 49 U.S.C. Chapter 53.
(b) The director and the division shall:
  (1) Review and make recommendations to the Governor concerning all proposed regional land transportation plans and transportation improvement programs and negotiate with the propounder of the plans concerning changes or amendments which may be recommended by the department or the Governor, consistent with applicable federal law and regulation;
  (2) Review any transportation projects proposed by the department and adopt, remove, or otherwise include such projects as all or a portion of department plans, consistent with applicable federal law and regulation;
  (3) Develop the state-wide strategic transportation plan, the state-wide transportation improvement program, and the state-wide freight and logistics implementation plan and support the various transportation improvement programs;
  (4) Develop an annual capital construction project list to be reviewed by the Governor and submitted to the General Assembly for consideration in the budget;
  (5) Promulgate rules and regulations necessary to carry out its duties under the provisions of this title. The division shall report the content of such rules or regulations to the Transportation Committees of the Senate and House of Representatives for their approval by majority vote prior to the promulgation thereof; and
  (6) Do all things necessary or convenient to carry out the powers expressly given in this Code section.
(c) After review and approval by the Governor, the state transportation improvement program and the state-wide strategic transportation plan shall be submitted to the State Transportation Board for approval.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 579,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 340,§ 4, eff. 5/11/2009.
