# § 32-2-42. Deputy commissioner of transportation; chief engineer; treasurer and assistant treasurer

(a) The commissioner shall appoint a deputy commissioner of transportation to serve at the pleasure of the commissioner. Before assuming the duties of his or her office, the deputy commissioner shall qualify by giving bond with a corporate surety licensed to do business in this state, such bond to be in the amount of $500,000.00 and payable to the Governor and his or her successors in office. The bond shall be subject to the approval of the Governor and shall be conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, including any duties of the office of the commissioner which the deputy commissioner may be required to perform as acting commissioner. The premium for the bond shall be paid out of the funds of the department. The deputy commissioner shall be the assistant commissioner and shall be empowered to act in his or her own name for the commissioner. The deputy commissioner may exercise to the extent permitted by law only such powers and duties of the commissioner as have been previously assigned to him or her in writing by the commissioner. In the event of the commissioner's temporary incapacity which causes his or her absence from the offices of the Department of Transportation in Atlanta, Georgia, for 30 consecutive days, the deputy commissioner shall assume all the powers and duties of the commissioner, to be exercised until such time as the commissioner's temporary absence or incapacity shall cease. In the event of the commissioner's permanent incapacity, the deputy commissioner shall become acting commissioner, as provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 32-2-40.
(b) The commissioner shall appoint a chief engineer to serve at the pleasure of the commissioner. The chief engineer shall be the chief engineer of the department and shall be a professional engineer registered in accordance with Chapter 15 of Title 43 and who shall be experienced in highway engineering.
(c) The commissioner shall appoint a treasurer of the department to serve at the pleasure of the commissioner. Before assuming the duties of his or her office, the treasurer shall qualify by giving bond with a corporate surety licensed to do business in this state, such bond to be in the amount of $500,000.00 and payable to the Governor and his or her successors in office. The bond shall be subject to the approval of the Governor and shall be conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of the office. The premium for the bond shall be paid out of the funds of the department. The duties of the treasurer shall be to receive all funds from all sources to which the department is entitled, to account for all funds received by the department, to adjust for additional appropriations or balances brought forward from previous years with the prior approval of the Office of Planning and Budget, and to perform such other duties as may be required of him or her by the commissioner. The commissioner shall have the authority to appoint an assistant treasurer in the same manner and under the same conditions as set forth in this subsection for the appointment of the treasurer, including the qualifying in advance by giving bond of the same type, amount, and paid for in the same manner as required of the treasurer. The assistant treasurer shall assume the duties of office of treasurer upon the incapacity or death of the treasurer and shall serve until a new treasurer is appointed as provided in this subsection.
(d) Any provision of this title or of any other statute or of any rule or regulation to the contrary notwithstanding, the commissioner or the deputy commissioner may, in addition to serving as commissioner or deputy commissioner, also simultaneously serve as chief engineer, provided that he or she shall be appointed and shall possess the qualifications as prescribed in subsection (b) of this Code section. A commissioner or deputy commissioner simultaneously serving as chief engineer shall be paid for the discharge of all his or her duties the sum to which he or she is entitled as commissioner or deputy commissioner.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 192,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 340,§ 8, eff. 5/11/2009.
