# § 32-2-40. Selection of commissioner of transportation; term; vacancy; bond; other elective office

(a) The commissioner of transportation shall be the chief executive officer of the department.
(b) The commissioner, his successor, and each succeeding commissioner thereafter shall be selected by a vote of the majority of the total number of members of the board. At the time of said vote, the board shall stipulate the term the commissioner shall serve, and said commissioner shall serve during the stipulated term and until his successor is selected by the board and duly qualified. The board shall stipulate one of the following to be the term of the commissioner:
  (1) The commissioner shall serve at the pleasure of the board; or
  (2) The commissioner shall serve any term specified by the board up to and including a maximum of four years; however, the board shall not specify a term of office that extends beyond the end of the term of the Governor in office at the time the commissioner's term is scheduled to begin.
(c) If the board stipulates that the commissioner shall serve under the provisions of paragraph (2) of this subsection, upon a vote of the majority of the total members of the board, the commissioner shall be subject to removal by the board for just cause after reasonable notice, copy of charge, hearing, and opportunity for presentation of evidence. In the event of a vacancy in the office of the commissioner by reason of resignation, removal, death, or permanent incapacity and inability to perform the duties of the office, the deputy commissioner shall become acting commissioner to serve until such time as the board at any regular or called meeting selects a new commissioner to fill the unexpired term of office created by such vacancy.
(d) The commissioner shall qualify, upon selection, by executing a bond in the amount of $100,000.00 with a corporate surety licensed to do business in this state and payable to the Governor and his successors in office, such bond to be approved by the Governor and conditioned on the faithful discharge of his duties as commissioner. The premium of such bond shall be paid from funds of the department.
(e) The commissioner shall devote full time and attention to the duties and responsibilities of his office. No person who serves as commissioner shall be eligible, except as hereinafter provided in this subsection, to qualify as a candidate in any primary, special, or general election for any state or federal elective office nor to hold any such office, except as hereinafter provided in this subsection, during the time he serves as commissioner and for a period of 12 months after the date he ceases to serve as commissioner. However, nothing contained in this subsection shall prevent the commissioner from being appointed to any other office nor disqualify him from running in any election to succeed himself in any office to which he was appointed nor to hold such office in the event he is elected thereto and otherwise qualified therefor; provided, however, that the commissioner shall resign as commissioner of transportation before accepting any such appointive office.
