# § 32-2-41.2. Development of benchmarks; reports; value engineering studies

(a) The commissioner shall develop and publish in print or electronically benchmarks, based upon the type and scope of a construction project, that detail a realistic time frame for completion of each stage of a construction project, including preliminary engineering and design, environmental permitting and review, and right of way acquisition.
(b) The director shall submit an annual report to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairpersons of the House and Senate Transportation Committees detailing the progress of every construction project valued at $10 million or more against the benchmarks. This report shall include an analysis explaining the discrepancies between the benchmarks and actual performance on each project as well as an explanation for delays. This report shall also be published on the website of the department.
(c) The department shall create and maintain on its website a detailed status report on each project under planning or construction. This status report shall include, but not be limited to, the name and contact information of the project manager, if applicable.
(d) Value engineering studies shall be performed on all projects whose costs exceed $50 million, except for any project procured in accordance with Code Sections 32-2-79, 32-2-80, and 32-2-81, and the director shall submit an annual report to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairpersons of the House and Senate Transportation Committees detailing the amount saved due to the value engineering studies. This report shall also be published on the website of the department.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 665,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 18,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 340,§ 7, eff. 5/11/2009.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 712,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
