# § 32-2-4.1. Gateway Center safety rest area and information center

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, the department may acquire, construct, operate, and maintain a demonstration safety rest area and information center in Cobb County. For purposes of this Code section, the safety rest area and information center shall be known as the "Gateway Center," but the State Transportation Board may name or designate the center in its discretion. In addition to the powers provided in this Code section, cumulatively, the department shall have the same powers with respect to Gateway Center which the department otherwise enjoys with respect to safety rest areas, information centers, and welcome centers.
(b) The purpose of Gateway Center shall be to act as a "gateway" to all of Georgia. Toward that end it shall provide information, goods, and services which assist road travelers and tell them about Georgia. The center may have any facility and provide any service which furthers those purposes, including by way of illustration, but not limitation:
  (1) Playground equipment;
  (2) Recreation areas;
  (3) Indoor and outdoor eating areas;
  (4) Restaurant, snack bar, and other facilities for purveying food and beverage;
  (5) Vending machines;
  (6) Gift, novelty, and souvenir shops;
  (7) Advertising;
  (8) Information kiosks;
  (9) Multimedia displays;
  (10) Communication services, such as computer Internet connections;
  (11) Parking; and
  (12) Markets. The prices charged for any service or product shall approximate the prevailing rate within the area for similar items so as not to compete unfairly with private enterprise.
(c) The department may establish a business plan for self-sufficient operation of Gateway Center and may retain for its improvement, maintenance, and operation all miscellaneous funds generated by its operation. Funds not expended for this purpose in the fiscal year in which they are generated shall be deposited in the state treasury. Further, nothing in this Code section may be construed to allow the department to retain any funds required by the Constitution of Georgia to be paid into the state treasury. Except with respect to Code Section 45-12-92 concerning miscellaneous funds, the department must also comply with Part 1 of Article 4 of Chapter 12 of Title 45, the "Budget Act," in regard to the fiscal operation of the center.
(d) By competitive process or negotiation, in its discretion, the department may contract, rent, license, allow, delegate, or otherwise act to cause private persons, public instrumentalities, and entities and units of state and local government to conduct the activities of the center. The department may accept monetary payments in return for rights and privileges, and it may also accept in-kind consideration, which supports the purposes of this Code section. The agreements under this Code section may allow the second parties to produce and retain revenue and may have a term not exceeding 50 years, whether the party is public or private. However, in no event may the department abrogate its ultimate responsibility or convey the fee, an estate for years, or any other interest in the real property of Gateway Center for the purposes of this Code section.
(e) Gateway Center may be a "welcome center, tourist center, and safety rest area" for purposes of Code Section 49-9-42, and the preference given by Code Sections 49-9-41 and 49-9-42 shall apply to and affect Gateway Center.
(f) Gateway Center shall be a "safety rest area and welcome center" for purposes of Code Section 35-2-32, and the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety may have jurisdiction to patrol Gateway Center for the purposes stated in that Code section.
(g) The department may pay the costs of Gateway Center from any lawful fund source, if it can comply with requirements of the fund source and this Code section. Possible sources may include, without limitation, miscellaneous funds from operation, gift, appropriation, proceeds of general obligation debt, funds of cooperating local governments and authorities, and grants by the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 608,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2012.
