# § 40-9-62. Duration of suspension; when judgments deemed satisfied

(a) A driver's license or nonresident's operating privilege suspended pursuant to Code Section 40-9-61 shall remain so suspended and shall not be renewed, nor shall any such license or registration be thereafter issued in the name of the judgment debtor, whether or not he or she was previously licensed, unless and until every such judgment is stayed, or satisfied in full or to the extent provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, subject to the exceptions provided in this article.
(b) Judgment referred to in this article, which is based upon an accident which occurred on or after January 1, 2001, shall, for the purpose of this chapter only, be deemed satisfied:
  (1) When $25,000.00 has been credited upon any judgment or judgments rendered in excess of that amount because of bodily injury to or death of one person as the result of any one accident;
  (2) When, subject to such limit of $25,000.00 because of bodily injury to or death of one person, $50,000.00 has been credited upon any judgment or judgments rendered in excess of that amount because of bodily injury to or death of two or more persons as the result of any one accident; or
  (3) When $25,000.00 has been credited upon any judgment or judgments rendered in excess of that amount because of injury to or destruction of property of others as a result of any one accident.
(c) Reserved.
(d) Payments made in settlement of any claims because of bodily injury, death, or property damage arising from the accident shall be credited in reduction of the amounts provided for in this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 20-4, eff. 7/1/2005.
