# § 10-6A-13. Exclusive representation; company policies; actual knowledge; confidentiality

(a) A broker may assign directly or through the adoption of a company policy different licensees affiliated with the broker as designated agents to exclusively represent different clients in the same transaction. In addition, the broker may delegate such assignment responsibility to other management level personnel acting under a company policy. Any company policy adopted to fulfill the requirements of this subsection shall contain provisions reasonably calculated to ensure each client is represented in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. A designated agent of a seller, landlord, buyer, or tenant shall owe his or her client the duties set forth in Code Section 10-6A-5, 10-6A-6, 10-6A-7, or 10-6A-8 of this chapter, respectively.
(b) If a broker appoints different designated agents in accordance with subsection (a) of this Code section, neither the broker, the broker's licensees, nor the real estate brokerage firm shall be deemed to be dual agents.
(c) When designated agents are appointed in accordance with subsection (a) of this Code section, the broker, the clients, and the designated agents shall be considered to possess only actual knowledge and information; there shall be no imputation of knowledge or information between and among the broker, the designated agents, and the clients. Designated agents shall not disclose, except to the designated agent's broker, information made confidential by request or instruction of the client whom the designated agent is representing, except information allowed to be disclosed by this Code section or required to be disclosed by this chapter. Unless required to be disclosed by law, the broker of a designated agent shall not reveal confidential information it receives from either the designated agent or the client with whom the designated agent is working. For the purposes of this Code section, confidential information shall be deemed to be any information the disclosure of which has not been consented to by the client that could harm the negotiating position of the client.
(d) The designation of one or more of a broker's affiliated licensees as designated agents shall not permit the disclosure by the broker or any of the broker's affiliated licensees of any information made confidential by an express request or instruction by a party prior to the creation of the designated agency. The broker and the broker's affiliated licensees shall continue to maintain such confidential information unless the party from whom the confidential information was obtained permits such disclosure by subsequent word or conduct, or such disclosure is required by law. No liability shall be created as a result of a broker and the broker's affiliated licensee's compliance with this subsection.
