# § 33-56-6. Mandatory control level events; actions by Commissioner

(a) For purposes of this Code section, "mandatory control level event" means any of the following events:
  (1) The filing of an RBC report which indicates that the insurer's total adjusted capital is less than its mandatory control level RBC;
  (2) Notification by the Commissioner to the insurer of an adjusted RBC report that indicates the event in paragraph (1) of this subsection, provided that the insurer does not challenge the adjusted RBC report under Code Section 33-56-7; or
  (3) If, pursuant to Code Section 33-56-7, the insurer challenges an adjusted RBC report that indicates the event in paragraph (1) of this subsection, notification by the Commissioner to the insurer that the Commissioner has, after a hearing, rejected the insurer's challenge.
(b) In the event of a mandatory control level event:
  (1) With respect to a life insurer or health organization, the Commissioner shall take such actions as are necessary to place the insurer under regulatory control under Chapter 37 of this title. In that event, the mandatory control level event shall be deemed sufficient grounds for the Commissioner to take action under Chapter 37 of this title, and the Commissioner shall have the rights, powers, and duties with respect to the insurer as are set forth in Chapter 37 of this title. If the Commissioner takes actions pursuant to an adjusted RBC report, the insurer shall be entitled to the protections of Chapter 2 of this title pertaining to summary proceedings. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the Commissioner may forgo action for up to 90 days after the mandatory control level event if the Commissioner finds there is a reasonable expectation that the mandatory control level event may be eliminated within the 90 day period.
  (2) With respect to a property and casualty insurer, the Commissioner shall take such actions as are necessary to place the insurer under regulatory control under Chapter 37 of this title, or in the case of an insurer which is writing no business and which is running-off its existing business may allow the insurer to continue its run-off under the supervision of the Commissioner. In either event, the mandatory control level event shall be deemed sufficient grounds for the Commissioner to take action under Chapter 37 of this title and the Commissioner shall have the rights, powers, and duties with respect to the insurer as are set forth in Chapter 37 of this title. If the Commissioner takes actions pursuant to an adjusted RBC report, the insurer shall be entitled to the protections of Chapter 2 of this title pertaining to summary proceedings. Notwithstanding any of the foregoing, the Commissioner may forgo action for up to 90 days after the mandatory control level event if the Commissioner finds there is a reasonable expectation that the mandatory control level event may be eliminated within the 90 day period.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 33, eff. 4/7/2005.
