# § 33-3-23. Transaction restrictions on lending institutions and bank holding companies

(a) For the purposes of this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Bank holding company" means the definition as set forth in Code Section 7-1-600 and in Section 2 of an act of Congress entitled the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.
  (2) "Lending institution" means any domestic institution that accepts deposits from the public and lends money, including banks and savings and loan associations.
(b) A lending institution, bank holding company, or subsidiary or affiliate of either of the foregoing doing business in this state, or any officer or employee of any of the foregoing, may be licensed to sell insurance, including but not limited to credit insurance, in this state and may engage in underwriting and act as an underwriter for credit life insurance and credit accident and sickness insurance subject to the provisions of this title and in conformity with rules and regulations promulgated by the Commissioner.
(c) Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the purchase of mortgage guaranty insurance, also called credit loss insurance, by a lending institution from a mortgage guaranty insurance company directly or indirectly.
(d) No lending institution, bank holding company, or any subsidiary or affiliate of any of the foregoing doing business in this state that was not in the business of selling title insurance on or before April 1, 2000, shall be permitted to sell title insurance.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-20, eff. 7/1/2019.
