# § 33-3-15. Issuance or refusal of certificate of authority generally; determining whether insurer meets definition of reinsurer; designation on certificate

(a) Upon filing of an application for an original certificate of authority, the Commissioner shall have 90 days in which to approve the application by issuing an appropriate certificate of authority or disapprove the application by issuing an order setting forth the grounds for such disapproval. The Commissioner may extend such 90 day period for an additional 90 days by notifying the applicant in writing of such extension. If the application is not approved or disapproved within such time period or periods, the application shall be deemed approved and the Commissioner shall thereupon issue the appropriate certificate of authority.
(b) The certificate, if issued, shall specify the kind or kinds of insurance the insurer is authorized to transact in Georgia. At the insurer's request, the Commissioner may issue a certificate of authority limited to particular types of insurance included within a kind of insurance as defined in this title.
(c) The Commissioner shall determine if the insurer is a reinsurer and shall so designate on the certificate. As used in this subsection, the term "reinsurer" means an insurer that is principally engaged in the business of reinsurance, does not conduct significant amounts of direct insurance as a percentage of its net premiums, and is not engaged in an ongoing basis in the business of soliciting direct insurance.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 218,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
