# § 33-3-27. Reports of awards under medical malpractice insurance policies

(a) For the purposes of this Code section, the term:
  (1) "High/low agreement" means a settlement in which a defendant agrees to pay the plaintiff a minimum recovery in return for the plaintiff's agreement to accept a maximum amount regardless of the outcome of the trial.
  (2) "Low payment" means the defendant pays the plaintiff the minimum recovery under a high/low agreement where the court rules in favor of the defendant.
  (3) "Medical malpractice claim" means any claim for damages resulting from the death of or injury to any person arising out of health, medical, or surgical service, diagnosis, prescription, treatment, or care rendered by a person authorized by law to practice medicine in this state or by any person acting under such person's supervision and control.
(b) Every insurer providing medical malpractice insurance coverage in this state shall notify in writing the Georgia Composite Medical Board when it pays a judgment or enters into an agreement to pay an amount to settle a medical malpractice claim, other than a low payment under a high/low agreement, against a person authorized by law to practice medicine in this state. Such judgments or agreements shall be reported to the board regardless of the dollar amount. Such notice shall be sent within 30 days after the judgment has been paid or the agreement has been entered into by the parties involved in the claim.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 269,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 1,§ 8, eff. 2/16/2005.
