# § 33-3-29. Licensing of foreign state insurers as domestic insurers

(a) Any insurer which is organized under the laws of any other state and is admitted to do business in this state for the purpose of writing insurance may become a domestic insurer by complying with all of the requirements of this title relative to the organization and licensing of a domestic insurer of the same type and by designating its principal place of business at a location in this state. Upon satisfaction of such requirements, the insurer shall be issued a certificate of authority and license to transact business in this state and shall be subject to the authority and jurisdiction of this state as a domestic insurer. The redomesticated insurer may choose to retain its original date of incorporation in lieu of its date of redomestication, provided that the retention of an earlier incorporation date shall not affect the operation or application of other laws.
(b) Any domestic insurer may, upon the approval of the Commissioner, transfer its domicile to any other state in which it is admitted to transact the business of insurance and, upon such a transfer, shall cease to be a domestic insurer and shall be admitted to this state if qualified as a foreign insurer. The Commissioner shall approve any such proposed transfer unless the Commissioner determines such transfer is not in the best interest of the policyholders of this state.
(c) The certificate of authority, agent appointments and licenses, rates, and other items which the Commissioner allows, in his discretion, and which are in existence at the time any insurer licensed to transact the business of insurance in this state transfers its corporate domicile to this or any other state by merger, consolidation, or any other lawful method shall continue in full force and effect upon such transfer if such insurer remains duly authorized to transact the business of insurance in this state. All outstanding policies of any transferring insurer shall remain in full force and effect and need not be endorsed as to the new name of the company or its new location unless so ordered by the Commissioner. Every transferring insurer shall file new policy forms with the Commissioner on or before the effective date of the transfer but may use existing policy forms with appropriate endorsements if allowed by, and under such conditions as approved by, the Commissioner. Every such transferring insurer shall notify the Commissioner of the details of the proposed transfer and shall file promptly any forms, documents, or amendments to forms or documents with the Commissioner. The Commissioner may promulgate rules and regulations necessary to carry out the purposes of this Code section.
