# § 4-8-27. Certificates of registration; requirements for issuance of certificate; individuals excluded from receiving registration; limitation of ownership; annual renewal

(a) It shall be unlawful for an owner to have or possess within this state a classified dog without a certificate of registration issued in accordance with the provisions of this Code section. Certificates of registration shall be nontransferable and shall only be issued to a person 18 years of age or older. No more than one certificate of registration shall be issued per domicile.
(b) Unless otherwise specified by this Code section, a certificate of registration for a dangerous dog shall be issued if the dog control officer determines that the following requirements have been met:
  (1) The owner has maintained an enclosure designed to securely confine the dangerous dog on the owner's property, indoors, or in a securely locked and enclosed pen, fence, or structure suitable to prevent the dangerous dog from leaving such property; and
  (2) Clearly visible warning signs have been posted at all entrances to the premises where the dog resides.
(c) Except as provided in subsections (e) and (f) of this Code section, a certificate of registration for a vicious dog shall be issued if the dog control officer determines that the following requirements have been met:
  (1) The owner has maintained an enclosure designed to securely confine the vicious dog on the owner's property, indoors, or in a securely locked and enclosed pen, fence, or structure suitable to prevent the vicious dog from leaving such property;
  (2) Clearly visible warning signs have been posted at all entrances to the premises where the dog resides;
  (3) A microchip containing an identification number and capable of being scanned has been injected under the skin between the shoulder blades of the dog; and
  (4) The owner maintains and can provide proof of general or specific liability insurance in the amount of at least $50,000.00 issued by an insurer authorized to transact business in this state insuring the owner of the vicious dog against liability for any bodily injury or property damage caused by the dog.
(d) No certificate of registration shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of two or more violations of this article.
(e) No person shall be the owner of more than one vicious dog.
(f) No certificate of registration for a vicious dog shall be issued to any person who has been convicted of:
  (1) A serious violent felony as defined in Code Section 17-10-6.1;
  (2) The felony of dogfighting as provided for in Code Section 16-12-37 or the felony of aggravated cruelty to animals as provided for in Code Section 16-12-4; or
  (3) A felony involving trafficking in cocaine, illegal drugs, marijuana, methamphetamine, or ecstasy as provided for in Code Sections 16-13-31 and 16-13-31.1from the time of conviction until two years after completion of his or her sentence, nor to any person residing with such person.
(g) Certificates of registration shall be renewed on an annual basis. At the time of renewal of a certificate of registration for a vicious dog, a dog control officer shall verify that the owner is continuing to comply with provisions of this article. Failure to renew a certificate of registration within ten days of the renewal date or initial classification date shall constitute a violation of this article.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 765,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2012.
