# § 19-6-34. Inclusion of life insurance in order of support

(a) In any case before the court involving child support, the court may include in the order of support provision for life insurance on the life of either parent or the lives of both parents for the benefit of the minor children. The court may order either parent or both parents to obtain and maintain the life insurance.
(b) The amount of the premium for such life insurance may be considered as a deviation to the presumptive amount of child support pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 19-6-15, provided that the court shall review the amount of the premium for reasonableness under the circumstances of the case and the best interest of the child.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, an order for child support shall not require maintenance of life insurance for a child's benefit after the child reaches the age of majority and shall not require that the proceeds of life insurance be available for the benefit of a child after the child reaches the age of majority.
(d)
  (1) The trier of fact, in the exercise of sound discretion, may direct either or both parents to maintain life insurance for the benefit of a child who has not previously married or become emancipated, who is enrolled in and attending a secondary school, and who has attained the age of majority before completing his or her secondary school education, provided that maintenance of such life insurance for the benefit of the child shall not be required after a child attains 20 years of age.
  (2) The trier of fact, in the exercise of its sound discretion, may direct either or both parents to maintain life insurance for the benefit of a dependent adult child as defined in Code Section 19-6-15.1.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall prevent parents from entering into an agreement for the provision of life insurance that differs from or exceeds the terms of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 479,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024, app. to all causes of action accruing on or after 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 650,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2007.
