# § 19-6-51. Members; terms; chairperson, other officers, and committees; staffing and funding

(a) The Georgia Child Support Commission shall be composed of 15 members. The Governor shall appoint all of the members as follows:
  (1) Three members who shall be judges in a superior court;
  (2) One member who shall be a Justice of the Supreme Court of Georgia or a Judge of the Georgia Court of Appeals or the Justice's or Judge's designee;
  (3) Two members of the House of Representatives and two members of the Senate; and
  (4) Seven other members. Each member of the commission shall be appointed to serve for a term of four years or until his or her successor is duly appointed except the members of the General Assembly, who shall serve until completion of their current terms of office. The initial members of the commission appointed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall serve for terms of three years. The initial member of the commission appointed pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection shall serve for a term of four years. The initial members of the commission appointed pursuant to paragraph (4) of this subsection shall serve for terms of two years. The initial members of the commission shall be appointed not later than May 22, 2005, and shall serve until their terms expire. The succeeding members of the commission shall begin their terms of office on July 1 of the year in which appointed. A member may be appointed to succeed himself or herself on the commission. If a member of the commission is an elected official, he or she shall be removed from the commission if he or she no longer serves as an elected official.
(b) The Governor shall designate the chairperson of the commission. The commission may elect other officers as deemed necessary. The chairperson of the commission may designate and appoint committees from among the membership of the commission as well as appoint other persons to perform such functions as he or she may determine to be necessary as relevant to and consistent with this article. The chairperson shall only vote to break a tie.
(c) The commission shall be attached for administrative purposes only to the Department of Human Services. The Department of Human Services shall provide staff support for the commission. The Department of Human Services shall use any funds specifically appropriated to it to support the work of the commission.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 19, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 52,§ 11, eff. 4/22/2005.
