# § 19-6-10. Voluntary separation, abandonment, or driving off of spouse - Petition for alimony or child support when no divorce pending - Order and enforcement; equitable remedies; effect of filing for divorce

When spouses are living separately or in a bona fide state of separation and there is no action for divorce pending, either party, on the party's own behalf or on the behalf of the minor children and any dependent adult child as defined in Code Section 19-6-15.1 in the party's custody, if any, may institute a proceeding by petition, setting forth fully the party's case. Upon three days' notice to the other party, the judge may hear the same and may grant such order as he or she might grant were it based on a pending petition for divorce, to be enforced in the same manner, together with any other remedy applicable in equity, such as appointing a receiver and the like. Should the petition proceed to a hearing before a jury, the jury may render a verdict which shall provide the factual basis for equitable relief as in Code Section 19-6-9. However, such proceeding shall be held in abeyance when a petition for divorce is filed bona fide by either party and the judge presiding has made his or her order on the motion for alimony. When so made, the order shall be a substitute for the aforesaid decree in equity as long as the petition is pending and is not finally disposed of on the merits.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 479,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024, app. to all causes of action accruing on or after 7/1/2024.
