# § 50-17-100. Definitions

(1) "Commission" means the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission as defined in paragraph (1) of Code Section 50-17-21, as amended.
(2) "Counterparty" means the party entering into a qualified interest rate management agreement with the state party. A counterparty must be a bank, insurance company, or other financial institution duly qualified to do business in the state that either:
  (A) Has, or whose obligations are guaranteed by an entity that has, at the time of entering into a qualified interest rate management agreement and for the entire term thereof, a long-term unsecured debt rating or financial strength rating in one of the top two ratings categories, without regard to any refinement or gradation of rating category by numerical modifier or otherwise, assigned by any two of the following: Moody's Investors Service, Inc., Standard & Poors Ratings Service, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., Fitch, Inc., or such other nationally recognized ratings service approved by the commission; or
  (B) Has collateralized its obligations under a qualified interest rate management agreement in a manner approved by the commission.
(3) "Debt" shall include all debt and revenue obligations that a state party is authorized to incur by law, including without limitation general obligation debt in the form of bonds or other obligations, guaranteed revenue debt in the form of bonds or other obligations, revenue bonds and other forms of revenue obligations, and all other debt or revenue undertakings, including, but not limited to, bonds, notes, warrants, certificates or other evidences of indebtedness, or other obligations for borrowed money issued or to be issued by any state party. "Debt" includes any financing lease or installment purchase contracts of any state authority.
(4) "Independent financial adviser" means a person or entity experienced in the financial aspects and risks of qualified interest rate management agreements that is retained by the state party to render advice with respect to a qualified interest rate management agreement. The independent financial adviser may not be the counterparty or an affiliate or agent of the counterparty on a qualified interest rate management agreement with respect to which the independent financial adviser is advising the state party.
(5) "Interest rate management plan" means a written plan prepared or reviewed by an independent financial adviser with respect to qualified interest rate management agreements of the state party.
(6) "Lease or installment purchase contract" means multiyear lease, purchase, installment purchase, or lease purchase contracts within the meaning of Code Sections 50-5-64, 50-5-65, and 50-5-77 or substantially similar other or successor Code sections.
(7) "Qualified interest rate management agreement" means an agreement, including a confirmation evidencing a transaction effected under a master agreement, entered into by the state party in accordance with, and fulfilling the requirements of, Code Section 50-17-101 which agreement in the judgment of the state party is designed to manage interest rate risk or interest cost of the state party on any debt or lease or installment purchase contract the state party is authorized to incur, including, but not limited to, interest rate swaps or exchange agreements, interest rate caps, collars, corridors, ceiling, floor, and lock agreements, forward agreements, swaptions, warrants, and other interest rate agreements which, in the judgment of the state party, will assist the state party in managing the interest rate risk or interest cost of the state or state authority.
(8) "State authority" means any state authority as defined in paragraph (9) of Code Section 50-17-21, as amended.
(9) "State party" means the state and any state authority.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 50, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 129,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2005.
