# § 50-17-102. Interest rate management plans

(a) Prior to executing and delivering a qualified interest rate management agreement, the state party shall have adopted an interest rate management plan that includes:
  (1) An analysis of the interest rate risk, basis risk, termination risk, credit risk, market-access risk, and other risks to the state party entering into qualified interest rate management agreements;
  (2) The state party's procedure for approving and executing qualified interest rate management agreements;
  (3) The state party's plan to monitor interest rate risk, basis risk, termination risk, credit risk, market-access risk, and other risks; and
  (4) Such other provisions as may from time to time be required by the commission, including but not limited to additional provisions due to changes in market conditions for qualified interest rate management agreements. Any interest rate management plan adopted by the state shall be approved by the commission or by a designated officer of the commission and shall have been reviewed by an independent financial adviser approved by the commission.
(b) The state party shall conduct an annual review of its interest rate management plan as to the adequacy of the procedures set forth in such plan for the analysis and monitoring requirements set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section. A report summarizing the results of such review shall be submitted annually to the commission and, with respect to any interest rate management plan of a state authority, to the governing body of such state authority. The requirements of this subsection shall not be construed as to require the review of any existing interest rate management plan by an independent financial adviser.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 129,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2005.
