# § 50-17-103. Requirements for interest rate management agreements; credit enhancement or liquidity agreements

(a) Each qualified interest rate management agreement shall meet the following requirements:
  (1) The maximum term, including any renewal periods, of any qualified interest rate management agreement of the state may not exceed ten years unless such longer term has been approved by the commission. In addition to approval of the commission required by paragraph (2) of subsection (g) of Code Section 50-17-101, the maximum term, including any renewal periods, of any qualified interest rate management agreement of a state authority may not exceed ten years unless such longer term has been approved by the governing body of the state authority. The foregoing provisions of this paragraph notwithstanding, in no case may the term of the qualified interest rate management agreement exceed the latest maturity date of the bonds, notes, debt, or lease or installment purchase contract referenced in the qualified interest rate management agreement.
  (2) The state party shall enter into a qualified interest rate management agreement only with a counterparty meeting the requirements set forth in paragraph (2) of Code Section 50-17-100.
  (3) Prior to the execution and delivery by the state of any qualified interest rate management agreement, an interest rate management plan meeting the requirements of Code Section 50-17-102 must have been submitted to the commission and the commission shall have been provided evidence that such qualified interest rate management agreement is in compliance with the existing interest rate management plan. Prior to the execution and delivery by a state authority of any qualified interest rate management agreement, an interest rate management plan meeting the requirements of Code Section 50-17-102 must have been submitted to the governing body of the state authority and the governing body of the state authority shall have been provided evidence that such qualified interest rate management agreement is in compliance with the existing interest rate management plan.
  (4) Any qualified interest rate management agreement shall be payable only in the currency of the United States of America.
  (5) The notional amount of any qualified interest rate management agreement shall not exceed the outstanding principal amount of the debt or the aggregate payments due under any lease or installment purchase contract to which such agreement relates unless otherwise approved in writing by the commission for any qualified interest rate management agreement executed by the state or by the governing body of the state authority for any qualified interest rate management agreement executed by a state authority, subject to the approval of the commission required by paragraph (2) of subsection (g) of Code Section 50-17-101.
(b) Any state party may enter into credit enhancement or liquidity agreements in connection with any qualified interest rate management agreement containing such terms and conditions as the state party determines are necessary or desirable, provided that any such agreement has the same source of payment as the related qualified interest rate management agreement.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 129,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2005.
