# § 50-17-2. Agreements to resell or repurchase United States government obligations at stated rate of interest; delivery and safekeeping of such obligations; investment in authorized securities

(a) Agencies, authorities, boards, public corporations, instrumentalities, retirement systems, and other divisions of state government authorized to invest in direct obligations of the United States government or in obligations unconditionally guaranteed by agencies of the United States government may do so by selling and purchasing such obligations under agreements to resell or repurchase the obligations at a date certain in the future at a specific price which reflects a premium over the purchase or selling price equivalent to a stated rate of interest. Delivery of the obligations purchased may be made by deposit through book entry in a safekeeping account maintained by the seller of the securities, in the name of the purchasing state entity or its agent, clearly indicating the interest of the purchasing state entity.
(b) In addition to the authorization in subsection (a) of this Code section, the state treasurer may invest in the securities authorized for direct investment by subsection (b) of Code Section 50-17-63 by selling and purchasing such obligations under agreements to resell or repurchase the obligations at a date certain in the future at a specific price which reflects a premium over the purchase or selling price equivalent to a stated rate of interest. Delivery of the obligations purchased may be made by deposit through book entry in a safekeeping account maintained by the seller of the securities, in the name of the Office of the State Treasurer or its agent, clearly indicating the interest of the Office of the State Treasurer.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
