# § 50-12-43. Membership; appointment; terms; chairperson

(a) The commission shall consist of members to be appointed as follows:
  (1) The Governor shall appoint one member from each congressional district in this state;
  (2) The President of the Senate shall appoint two members from the state at large; and
  (3) The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint two members from the state at large.
(b) The members shall be selected because of their experience and interest in physical fitness and amateur athletics and shall share a commitment to promote amateur athletics in the state. The terms of the 12 members of the commission who were in office on January 1, 1991, shall expire on December 31, 1993. As soon as legally permissible after January 1, 1991, the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall each appoint one additional member to the commission for initial terms expiring on December 31, 1993. In the event the number of members of the United States House of Representatives from Georgia is increased following the United States decennial census of 1990, the Governor shall appoint an appropriate number of additional members to the commission and such members shall have initial terms expiring on December 31, 1993. Successors to members whose terms expire on December 31, 1993, shall be appointed for initial terms as follows:
  (1) Members appointed by the Governor from odd-numbered congressional districts, one member appointed by the President of the Senate, and one member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall have initial terms beginning on January 1, 1994, and ending December 31, 1995; and
  (2) Members appointed by the Governor from even-numbered congressional districts, one member appointed by the President of the Senate, and one member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall have initial terms beginning on January 1, 1994, and ending December 31, 1997. Successors to such members and future successors shall be appointed immediately prior to the expiration of a term of office, shall take office on January 1 following their appointment, and shall have terms of office of four years each and until their respective successors are appointed. Members shall be eligible for reappointment for an unlimited number of terms.
(c) Members shall elect a chairman who shall be a member of the commission. The commission shall meet regularly at the call of the Governor or the chairman. A majority of the total number of members to which the commission is entitled shall constitute a quorum. The commission shall adopt such rules and regulations as are necessary and proper to govern its procedure and business.
(d) In the event of the death, disability, resignation, removal, or refusal to serve of any member, the appointing official of that member shall appoint a qualified person to fill the unexpired term.
(e) Each member of the commission shall receive the same expense allowance per day as that received by a member of the General Assembly for each day such member of the commission is in attendance at a meeting of the commission, plus reimbursement for actual transportation costs while traveling by public carrier or the legal mileage rate for the use of a personal automobile in connection with such attendance.
