# § 50-12-71. Membership; appointment; terms; chairperson; officers; personnel; meetings

(a) The board shall be composed of 17 members to be appointed as follows:
  (1) Sixteen members shall be appointed by the Governor, five members for initial terms of two years; five members for initial terms of three years; four members for initial terms of four years; and two members provided for in 1991 for initial terms of five years. Seven of the members appointed by the Governor may reside in any area of the state. Of the remaining nine members appointed by the Governor, one member shall reside in and be appointed from each of the nine districts provided in subsection (b) of this Code section. Successors to such members shall be appointed by the Governor for terms of six years; and
  (2) One member shall be appointed by the Commander of the Warner Robins Air Logistics Center at Robins Air Force Base in Houston County, Georgia, for an initial term of four years, and successors shall be appointed by the Governor for terms of six years. This member may reside in any area of the state.
(b) For the purpose of appointing nine members of the board, the state shall be divided into nine districts based upon the ZIP Code areas as designated by the United States Postal Service and as such areas exist on January 1, 1989. The nine districts shall be composed as follows: District 1:ZIP Code Areas 305 and 307;District 2:ZIP Code Area 306;District 3:ZIP Code Areas 300, 301, 302, and 303;District 4:ZIP Code Areas 304, 308, and 309;District 5:ZIP Code Areas 310 and 312;District 6:ZIP Code Areas 318 and 319;District 7:ZIP Code Area 317;District 8:ZIP Code Area 316; andDistrict 9:ZIP Code Areas 313, 314, and 315.
(c) Of the 17 members of the board, at least 11 members shall have experience in and be representative of the aviation industry or profession. Initial appointments shall be made prior to July 1, 1989, except that the additional members provided for in 1991 shall be appointed prior to October 1, 1991. In the event a vacancy occurs in the membership of the board, the Governor shall promptly fill the same for the unexpired term. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(d) The board shall elect a chairperson, a vice-chairperson, and such other officers as it deems advisable from its own membership. The members shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in attending meetings of the board. The board is authorized to employ such personnel as it deems necessary to enable it to carry out its duties and functions; however, such employees may not be subject to the state system of personnel administration provided for in Chapter 20 of Title 45. The board shall meet once each quarter and at such other times as the board deems necessary but not more than eight times annually.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-104, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
