# § 50-12-31. Creation; purpose; board of trustees; membership; appointment; terms; advisory committee

(a) In order to foster a public-private partnership for the support of the arts, education, economic development, and tourism in this state, there is created the Georgia Arts Alliance. Such alliance shall be for the purpose of receiving and distributing funds for the support of the arts, including the Georgia Council for the Arts, and the teaching and physical infrastructure needed to provide arts and arts in education in order to improve education and provide for economic development and tourism. The Georgia Arts Alliance shall not be an entity or agency of government, but shall be a private entity operating under and in accordance with the laws of this state. It is the intent of the General Assembly that such private entity take all necessary steps to become a Section 501(c)(3) entity under the Internal Revenue Code.
(b)
  (1) The Georgia Arts Alliance shall be governed by a board of trustees consisting of ten members. The members of the board shall include the State School Superintendent, the commissioner of economic development, the Executive Director of the Georgia Council of the Arts, and seven members appointed by the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and Speaker of the House as follows: the Governor shall appoint five members, one of whom may be the head of a not for profit arts organization with an annual budget of more than $10 million, one of whom may be the head of a not for profit organization with a budget of less than $10 million, one of whom may be the chief executive officer of a for profit company with more than 1,000 employees, one of whom may be the chief executive officer of a for profit company with less than 1,000 employees, and one of whom is a representative of a private charitable foundation; the Lieutenant Governor shall select one member who may be the head of a school district with more than 25,000 students; and the Speaker of the House shall select one member who may be the head of a school district with less than 25,000 students.
  (2) The Governor shall appoint one member to serve as chairperson of the board of trustees. The board may elect such other officers as the board deems appropriate. The board shall meet at the call of the chairperson or the request of any three members.
(c) The members of the board of trustees shall serve terms of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified; provided, however, that the initial terms of the head of a not for profit arts organization with an annual budget of more than $10 million, the head of a school district with more than 25,000 students, and the chief executive officer of a for profit company with fewer than 1,000 employees in Georgia shall be for two years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Thereafter, such members shall serve four-year terms and until their successors are appointed and qualified. The members of the board shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual and reasonable expenses incurred while on the business of the alliance.
(d) The board of trustees shall appoint an advisory committee to assist the board members in their duties. Such advisory committee shall consist of not more than 30 members and shall be chaired by the executive director of the alliance. The advisory committee shall include at least two representatives from each of the state's congressional districts. In making its appointments, the board shall select members of the boards of arts, education, economic development, and tourism organizations; persons who have shown a commitment to the arts in their communities; and persons who understand the needs of business, education, and the arts and tourism industries. Such members shall serve for four-year terms and until their successors are selected and qualified; provided, however, that the board of trustees shall designate 15 of the initial appointees to serve terms of two years and until their successors are selected and qualified. Such 15 members shall thereafter serve four-year terms and until their successors are selected and qualified. The members of the advisory committee shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for actual and reasonable expenses incurred while on the business of the advisory committee.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 50, eff. 4/14/2009.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 573,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
