# § 50-12-22. Membership; appointment; terms; chairperson; meetings

(a) The council shall consist of nine members who shall be appointed by the Governor. Councilmembers shall serve two three-year terms. The Governor shall fill any vacancies for unexpired terms. In addition to the nine members appointed by the Governor pursuant to this subsection, the Governor shall appoint two ex officio members from the General Assembly.
(b) With regards to the composition of the council:
  (1) The council shall be broadly representative of the major fields of the arts and related creative industries;
  (2) The council should be a balanced representation of the entire state, accounting for, but not limited to, minority and ethnic groups, gender diversity, geographic diversity, large and small organizations, and the public and private sectors;
  (3) Councilmembers shall be appointed from among private citizens who are widely known for their competence and experience in connection with the arts and related creative industries, as well as their knowledge of community and state interests; and
  (4) Consideration shall be given to recommendations for membership made by persons or organizations involved in civic, educational, business, labor, professional, cultural, ethnic, and performing and creative arts fields, as well as those with knowledge of community and state interests.
(c) Members shall be entitled to reimbursement for expenses incurred in the work of the council when authorized in advance by the commissioner of economic development.
(d) Active and continuing participation by members of the council is needed. Any member who fails to attend three regularly scheduled, consecutive meetings may be removed by the council.
(e) A chairperson shall be appointed annually by the Governor for a term ending on June 30 of the year following such appointment. The chairperson shall be a person widely recognized for his or her knowledge, experience, and interest in the arts industry, as well as his or her knowledge of community and state interests.
(f) The council shall meet upon the call of the chairperson, but not less often than twice during each fiscal year. A majority of the members appointed to the council shall constitute a quorum.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 327,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 167,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
