# § 36-39-14. Hearing upon board of appraisers' report; review of report and objections; ordinance fixing assessments; taxation of interest

When the report of the appraisers has been returned and filed, the governing body shall appoint a time for the holding of a session or shall designate a regular meeting of its body for the hearing of any complaints or objections that may be made by any interested person concerning the appraisal, apportionment, and assessment. Notice of such session for the hearing shall be published by the clerk of the governing body once a week for two weeks in a newspaper having a general circulation in the municipal corporation. The notice shall provide for an inspection of the return by any property owner or other party interested in such return. The time fixed for the hearing shall be not less than five nor more than ten days from the date of the last publication of the notice. The governing body at the session shall have the power and duty to review and correct the appraisal, apportionment, and assessment, to hear objections to the same, and to confirm the same either as made by the board or as corrected by the governing body. The governing body, by ordinance, shall fix the assessment in accordance with the appraisal and apportionment, as so confirmed, against the several tracts of land liable therefor. The rate of interest to be taxed shall not exceed 1 percent per annum over and above the rate of interest stipulated in the bonds provided for in this chapter.
