# § 27-5-2.1. Importation restrictions; prohibition on possession of cervid carcasses

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Cervid" means a member of the family cervidae.
  (2) "Chronic wasting disease" means a fatal disease that belongs to a group of diseases known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies and that affects the brains of cervids.
  (3) "Importation" means the transportation of a cervid, cervid carcass, or carcass part into this state.
  (4) "Whole" means the entire carcass, whether eviscerated or not, prior to the carcass being processed.
(b)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or association to import, bring, or cause to be imported or brought into this state any live cervid, except as otherwise authorized by rule or regulation of the board in effect as of January 1, 2007, or such later date as may be provided by Code Section 27-1-39.
  (2)
    (A) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature and upon conviction shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1,500.00 nor more than $5,000.00, imprisonment for a period not exceeding 12 months, or both such fine and imprisonment.
    (B) The hunting and fishing privileges of any person convicted of violating paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be suspended for not less than three years from the date of conviction.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to import or possess a whole cervid carcass or cervid carcass part from any place outside of Georgia, except for any one or more of the following cervid carcass parts:
  (1) Boned-out meat or products thereof;
  (2) Antlers, skulls, skull plates, teeth, or jawbones with no soft tissue attached;
  (3) Hides with no heads attached; and
  (4) Finished taxidermy mounts.
(d) Upon the detection of chronic wasting disease in this state or any county adjacent to the borders of this state, the department shall have the authority to restrict the movement or transport of cervid carcasses, or carcass parts within this state. A violation of any such restriction shall be treated as a violation of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 864,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 520,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2006.
See 2006 Ga. Laws 520, § 5.
