# § 27-5-3. Powers of department generally

(a) The department shall have the authority to prescribe the form and contents for the license and permit applications provided for in this chapter.
(b) The department shall issue or deny all permits and licenses required by this chapter and any rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter.
(c) The department may, prior to a hearing, issue a cease and desist order or other appropriate order to any person who is violating this chapter or any regulation, permit, or license issued pursuant to this chapter.
(d) The department may quarantine or otherwise dispose of or order the disposition of any wild animal when it determines that the wild animal is affected with or exposed to a contagious or infectious disease or is infested with a parasite or pest harmful to wildlife.
(e) The department shall have the authority, based upon the standards set forth in Code Section 27-5-6, to determine if the necessary facilities, conditions, and standards prescribed by this chapter are sufficient for safety to the public and for the humane handling, care, confinement, and transportation of the wild animal for which application for a permit or license, or both, has been received. The department shall be authorized to make such determinations by inspecting the facilities of the permit or license holder. Following such determination, the department also has the authority to condition the license or permit so that the standards and intent of this chapter are met.
(f) The department is authorized to capture and contain any wild animal regulated by this chapter which has escaped or been released when such wild animal is determined by the department to pose a risk to Georgia's wildlife or other natural resources or to the citizens of and visitors to this state.
