# § 31-34-2. Purpose and intent of article

It is the purpose of this article to increase the number of physicians, dentists, physician assistants, and advanced practice registered nurses in underserved rural areas of Georgia by making loans to physicians, dentists, physician assistants, and advanced practice registered nurses who have completed their medical or health care education and to dental students and allowing such loans to be repaid by such physicians, dentists, physician assistants, advanced practice registered nurses, and dental students agreeing to practice medicine or provide health care services in such rural areas and by making grants to hospitals and, as determined by the Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce, other health care entities, local governments, and civic organizations in underserved rural areas of Georgia that agree to provide matching funds to the grant, with the intent to enhance recruitment efforts in bringing physicians, dentists, physician assistants, and advanced practice registered nurses to such areas. It is the intent of the General Assembly that if funds are available to the Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce to make loans, grants, or scholarships under this article or under other applicable state law, the Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce shall give priority to loans and scholarships under Part 6 of Article 7 of Chapter 3 of Title 20 and to loans under Code Section 31-34-4.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 385,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 50,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 299,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 176,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 113,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 429,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 31, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 468,§ 2B, eff. 7/1/2006.
