# § 31-34-20. Grant program for physicians serving underserved rural areas; eligibility qualifications; time of practice; rules and regulations

(a) Subject to appropriations, the Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce shall establish a grant program for the purpose of increasing the number of physicians who remain in Georgia to practice in medically underserved rural areas of the state. The grant program shall provide medical malpractice insurance premium assistance for physicians practicing in such medically underserved rural areas of the state, as identified by the Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce pursuant to Code Section 49-10-3.
(b) To be eligible to receive a grant under the grant program, a physician shall meet the following qualifications:
  (1) Maintain a practice in a medically underserved rural area of the state;
  (2) Be licensed to practice in this state and board certified;
  (3) Complete a minimum of 100 hours of continuing medical education as approved by the Georgia Composite Medical Board;
  (4) Provide weekend or extended hours; and
  (5) Accept Medicaid and medicare patients.
(c) A physician receiving a grant pursuant to the grant program shall agree to practice medicine in such medically underserved rural areas of the state for a period of time determined by the Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce.
(d) The Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce may adopt and prescribe such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or appropriate to administer and carry out the grant program provided for in this chapter. In establishing the amount of grants, the Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce shall determine the average insurance premium rates for physicians in rural areas of this state.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 50,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 299,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2018.
