# § 31-34-6. Contract between applicant and state agreeing to terms and conditions of loan; breach of contract; service cancelable contracts

(a)
  (1) Before being granted a service cancelable loan provided for in this article, each applicant therefor shall enter into a contract with the State of Georgia agreeing to the terms and conditions upon which the loan is granted, which contract shall include such terms and conditions as will carry out the purposes and intent of this article. The chairperson of the board and the executive director of the board, acting for and on behalf of the State of Georgia, shall execute the contract for the board. The contract shall also be properly executed by the applicant. The board is vested with full and complete authority to bring an action in its own name against any recipient of a loan under the provisions of this article for the performance of the contract and to collect any amount that may be due under the contract.
  (2) Any recipient of a loan under the provisions of this article who breaches the contract for such loan by either failing to begin or failing to complete the rural practice service obligation under the contract shall be immediately liable to the board for twice the total uncredited amount of all loans contracted for with the recipient, such uncredited amount to be prorated on a monthly basis respecting the recipient's actual service rendered and the total service obligation. For compelling reasons provided for in rules or regulations of the board, the board may agree to and accept a lesser measure of damages for the breach of a contract.
(b)
  (1) Before receiving a grant under this article, each approved applicant hospital or other health care entity, local government, or civic organization shall enter into a service cancelable contract with the State of Georgia agreeing to the terms and conditions upon which the grant is made, which contract shall include such terms and conditions as will carry out the purposes and intent of this article. The chairperson of the board and the executive director of the board, acting for and on behalf of the State of Georgia, shall execute the contract for the board. The contract shall also be properly executed by the applicant. The board is vested with full and complete authority to bring an action in its own name against any recipient of a grant under the provisions of this article for the performance of the contract and to collect any amount that may be due under the contract.
  (2) Any recipient of a grant under the provisions of this article who breaches the contract for such grant shall be liable for the measure of damages specified in the contract for the breach of such contract.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 299,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 429,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
