# § 31-34-4.1. Grants to hospitals and other entities; use of funds; rules and regulations authorized

(a) After providing priority consideration to granting loans pursuant to Code Section 31-34-4, the board is authorized to make grants to hospitals and, as determined by the board, other health care entities, local governments, and civic organizations in underserved rural areas of Georgia, provided that any such hospital, health care entity, local government, or civic organization matches such grant in an amount not less than such grant. Such grants shall be for the purpose of enhancing recruitment efforts in bringing physicians, dentists, physician assistants, and advanced practice registered nurses to such areas.
(b) Acceptable expenditures of grant funds by a hospital or other health care entity, local government, or civic organization include, but are not limited to, medical or health care education loan repayment, salary supplements for physicians, dentists, physician assistants, and advanced practice registered nurses, and additional support staff for a physician's, dentist's, physician assistant's, or advanced practice registered nurse's office. Grant funds shall not be used for hiring or paying a recruiting firm or individual recruiter.
(c) The board is authorized to give priority over other grant applicants to applicant hospitals and other health care entities, local governments, and civic organizations in rural areas of this state experiencing shortages or distribution problems of certain specialties as determined by the board pursuant to rules and regulations adopted by the board in accordance with this article.
(d) The board may adopt and prescribe such rules and regulations as it deems necessary or appropriate to administer and carry out the grant program provided for in this article. Such rules and regulations shall provide for the criteria that must be met by an applicant and the penalties that shall be incurred for failure to comply with the grant requirements.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 299,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 176,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2017.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 429,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
