# § 29-11-32. Exercise of powers authorized; enforcement

(a) Upon registration and recording of a guardianship order or conservatorship order from another state, the guardian or conservator may exercise in this state all powers authorized in the order of appointment except as prohibited under the laws of this state, including maintaining actions and proceedings in this state and, if the guardian or conservator is not a resident of this state, subject to any conditions imposed upon nonresident parties.
(b) A court of this state may grant any relief available under this chapter, Article 4 of Chapter 4 of this title, Part 4 of Article 9 of Chapter 4 of this title, Article 5 of Chapter 5 of this title, Part 4 of Article 13 of Chapter 5 of this title, and other law of this state to enforce a registered and recorded order.
(c)
  (1) The provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 9-12-133 shall not apply to this article.
  (2) Unless otherwise required by this chapter, service of notice shall not be required under this article as a condition precedent to the registration and recording of a guardianship order from another state under Code Section 29-11-30 or of a conservatorship order from another state under Code Section 29-11-31; provided, however, that the judge of a court of this state may direct such service or notice of such registration and recording as the judge may determine to be proper.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 233,§ 34, eff. 1/1/2020.
Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 486,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
