# § 29-11-31. Registration of conservatorship order; recordation of order

(a) If a conservator has been appointed in another state and a petition for a conservatorship order is not pending in this state, the conservator appointed in the other state, after giving notice to the appointing court of an intent to register, may register the conservatorship order in this state by filing as a foreign judgment in a court of this state, in any county in which property belonging to the protected person is located, certified copies of the order and letters of office and of any bond.
(b) Upon registration of a conservatorship order from another state in the manner provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, the probate court of this state in which such conservatorship order is registered shall:
  (1) Record the certified copies of the order and letters of office in the book required to be kept by subparagraph (a)(8)(B) of Code Section 15-9-37;
  (2) Record the certified copy of any bond in the books required to be kept by subparagraph (a)(8)(C) of Code Section 15-9-37 and by subsection (c) of Code Section 29-5-40; and
  (3) Treat the registered and recorded order as a filed foreign judgment as provided in Code Section 9-12-132.
(c)
  (1) The provisions of this Code section shall apply only if the other state has adopted the "Uniform Adult Guardianship and Conservatorship Proceedings Jurisdiction Act" in substantially the same form as this chapter.
  (2) The provisions of paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall apply only if the other state has adopted the "Uniform Enforcement of Foreign Judgments Law" in substantially the same form as Article 6 of Chapter 12 of Title 9.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 233,§ 33, eff. 1/1/2020.
Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 486,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
