# § 29-11-21. Petition for acceptance; notice; hearing; provisional and final orders; modification to conform to law

(a) To confirm transfer of a guardianship or conservatorship transferred to this state under provisions similar to Code Section 29-11-20, the guardian or conservator must petition the court in this state to accept the guardianship or conservatorship. The petition must include a certified copy of the other state's provisional order of transfer.
(b) Notice of a petition under subsection (a) of this Code section shall be given to those persons that would be entitled to notice if the petition were a petition for the appointment of a guardian or issuance of a conservatorship order in both the transferring state and this state. The notice must be given in the same manner as notice is required to be given in this state.
(c) On the court's own motion or on request of the guardian or conservator, the incapacitated person or protected person, or other person required to be notified of the proceeding, the court shall hold a hearing on a petition filed pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section.
(d) The court shall issue an order provisionally granting a petition filed under subsection (a) of this Code section unless:
  (1) An objection is made and the objector establishes that transfer of the proceeding would be contrary to the interests of the incapacitated person or protected person; or
  (2) The guardian or conservator is ineligible for appointment in this state.
(e) The court shall issue a final order accepting the proceeding and appointing the guardian or conservator as guardian or conservator in this state upon its receipt from the court from which the proceeding is being transferred of a final order issued under provisions similar to Code Section 29-11-20 transferring the proceeding to this state.
(f) Not later than 90 days after issuance of a final order accepting transfer of a guardianship or conservatorship, the court shall determine whether the guardianship or conservatorship needs to be modified to conform to the law of this state.
(g) In granting a petition under this Code section, the court shall recognize a guardianship order or conservatorship order from the other state, including the determination of the incapacitated person's or protected person's incapacity and the appointment of the guardian or conservator.
(h) The denial by a court of this state of a petition to accept a guardianship or conservatorship transferred from another state does not affect the ability of the guardian or conservator to seek appointment as guardian or conservator in this state under Article 2 of Chapter 4 and Article 2 of Chapter 5 of this title if the court has jurisdiction to make an appointment other than by reason of the provisional order of transfer.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 486,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
