# § 29-11-2. Definitions

(1) "Conservatorship order" means an order appointing a conservator or other order related to management of an adult's property.
(2) "Conservatorship proceeding" means a judicial proceeding in which a conservatorship order is sought or has been issued.
(3) "Emergency" means a circumstance that likely will result in substantial harm to a respondent's health, safety, or welfare and for which the appointment of a guardian is necessary because no other person has authority and is willing to act on the respondent's behalf.
(4) "Guardianship order" means an order appointing a guardian.
(5) "Guardianship proceeding" means a judicial proceeding in which an order for the appointment of a guardian is sought or has been issued.
(6) "Home state" means the state in which the respondent was physically present, including any period of temporary absence, for at least six consecutive months immediately before the filing of a petition for a conservatorship order or the appointment of a guardian or, if none, the state in which the respondent was physically present, including any period of temporary absence, for at least six consecutive months ending within the six months prior to the filing of the petition.
(7) "Incapacitated person" means an adult for whom a guardian has been appointed, including a ward, as defined in paragraph (27) of Code Section 29-1-1.
(8) "Party" means the respondent, petitioner, guardian, conservator, or any other person allowed by the court to participate in a guardianship proceeding or conservatorship proceeding.
(9) "Person," except in the term "incapacitated person" or "protected person," means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture, public corporation, government or governmental subdivision, agency, or instrumentality or any other legal or commercial entity.
(10) "Protected person" means an adult for whom a conservatorship order has been issued, including a ward, as defined in paragraph (27) of Code Section 29-1-1.
(11) "Record" means information that is inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form.
(12) "Respondent" means an adult for whom a conservatorship order or the appointment of a guardian is sought, including a proposed ward as defined in paragraph (16) of Code Section 29-1-1.
(13) "Significant-connection state" means a state, other than the home state, with which a respondent has a significant connection other than mere physical presence and in which substantial evidence concerning the respondent is available.
(14) "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, a federally recognized Indian tribe, or any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 486,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
