# § 36-31-12. Legislative findings; special districts divided into noncontiguous areas; information required in audits; informational summary

(a) The General Assembly finds that:
  (1) The purpose of a special district is to provide services to a given geographic area and to finance the provision of those services from taxes, fees, and assessments levied in the geographic area which benefits from the services;
  (2) The creation of a municipal corporation within a county which has a special district for the unincorporated area of the county may result in the special district being divided into noncontiguous areas or in existing noncontiguous areas of such district being even more remote from each other; and
  (3) The purpose of a special district is defeated if it becomes divided into noncontiguous areas which are remote from each other and one or more of such noncontiguous areas is subsidizing the provision of services in other such noncontiguous areas.
(b)
  (1) When a municipal corporation is created by local Act within a county which has a special district for the provision of local government services consisting of the unincorporated area of the county and following the creation of said municipal corporation the special district is divided into two or more noncontiguous areas, any special district taxes, fees, and assessments collected in such a noncontiguous area shall be spent to provide services in that noncontiguous area. Effective January 1, 2006, for the purposes of this Code section, a noncontiguous area located within ten miles of another noncontiguous area may be treated as the same noncontiguous area.
  (2) If, on or after May 14, 2008:
    (A) Excess proceeds derived from the collection of any special district taxes, fees, and assessments or from any earnings thereon remain following the expenditure required under paragraph (1) of this subsection; and
    (B) All of the area within the special district shall have become incorporated within one or more municipalities, then the excess proceeds shall be disbursed within 60 days to the governing authority of each municipality which has incorporated any portion of the area of the special district; and the county shall continue to make such disbursements for so long as such excess proceeds continue to be received. The amount of proceeds to be disbursed to each municipality shall be determined on a pro rata basis using as a denominator the total value of all tax parcels within the special district and as a numerator the total value of all tax parcels which were incorporated within each municipality.
  (3) If, on or after May 14, 2008:
    (A) Excess proceeds remain from the collection of any special district taxes, fees, and assessments or from any earnings thereon; and
    (B) A new municipality shall have been created from within such special district such that the special district shall have been diminished in size but not all of the special district shall have been incorporated within one or more municipalities, then the excess proceeds shall be disbursed within 60 days to the governing authority of each municipality which has incorporated any portion of the area of the special district; and the county shall continue to make such disbursements for so long as such excess proceeds continue to be received. The amount of proceeds to be disbursed to each municipality shall be determined on a pro rata basis using as a denominator the total value of all tax parcels within the special district and as a numerator the total value of all tax parcels which were incorporated within each municipality.
(c) When a municipal corporation is created by local Act within a county subject to this Code section, the county shall for the fiscal year in which the municipal corporation is chartered and for each of the next two fiscal years have included in its annual audit detailed findings as to:
  (1) The amount of any special district taxes, assessments, and fees collected in each noncontiguous area of the special district;
  (2) The total amount of expenditures by the county for:
    (A) The provision of services within each noncontiguous area of the special district, including only those services which are provided by the county only in the special district; and
    (B) The construction and maintenance of facilities for the provision of services referred to in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph; and
  (3) The amount by which expenditures stated in paragraph (2) of this subsection exceed or are less than the amount stated in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(d) The party performing the audit required by subsection (c) of this Code section shall prepare as promptly as is practicable a brief informational summary of the audit findings required by that subsection. The informational summary shall also include a statement of the amount of proceeds collected by the county pursuant to any tax under Article 2 of Chapter 8 of Title 48 which would be allocated to each noncontiguous area of the special district if such area received an allocation equal on a per capita basis to the average per capita allocation to the cities in the county. After each year's summary becomes available, a copy of the summary shall be included with the next ad valorem tax bills mailed by the county to residents of the special district consisting of the unincorporated area of the county.
(e) For purposes of determining applicability of this Code section, a county shall be considered to have a special district for the provision of local government services when a county has created a special district for such purposes pursuant to Article IX, Section II, Paragraph VI of the Constitution or has created a similar district for the provision of services under any other provision of any past or present Constitution or law.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 691,§ 2, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 759,§ 2, eff. 5/14/2008.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 36, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 449,§ 1, eff. 4/6/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 34,§ 3, eff. 4/15/2005.
