# § 36-31-8. Transition periods for governmental functions; appointment by the Governor of interim representatives

(a) When a new municipal corporation is created by local Act, the local Act may provide for a transition period not to exceed 24 months for the orderly transition of governmental functions from the county to the new municipal corporation. The local Act may specify the time or times during the transition period (or the method or methods for determining the time or times during the transition period) at which:
  (1) Various governmental functions, services, and responsibilities will be assumed by the new municipal corporation within its territory; and
  (2) The municipal court of the new municipality shall begin to exercise its jurisdiction over various subject matters.
(b) When a chartering local Act so provides for a transition period, the county in which the new municipality is located shall continue to provide within the territory of the new city all government services and functions which it provided as of the date of enactment of the chartering local Act. The county shall continue to provide such services and functions until the end of the transition period; provided, however, that the new city may assume the provision of any service or function at such earlier time as may be specified in the chartering local Act or at such earlier time as may be agreed upon by the county and the new city.
(c) When a chartering local Act so provides for a transition period, on and after the first day the initial governing authority takes office, the governing authority may from time to time adopt appropriate measures to initiate collection within the territory of the new city during the transition period of all taxes, fees, assessments, fines and bond forfeitures, and other moneys. Where a particular tax, fee, assessment, fine, forfeiture, or other amount collected by the city during the transition period is specifically related to the provision of a particular government service or function by the county, the service or function shall continue to be provided by the county during the transition period contingent upon payment by the city of the actual cost of providing such service or function unless otherwise provided in a written agreement between the new city and the county.
(d) When a chartering local Act so provides for a transition period, the county in which the new city is located shall not from the time of enactment of the charter until the end of the transition period remove from the county road system any road within the territory of the new city except with the agreement of the new city.
(e) When a chartering local Act so provides for a transition period, the new municipality shall not be subject to the laws specified in this subsection during the transition period; provided, however, that the new city and other political subdivisions may during the transition period commence planning, negotiations, and other actions necessary or appropriate for compliance after the transition period. During the transition period, the new municipality shall not be subject to:
  (1) Chapter 70 of this title, relating to planning and service delivery strategies;
  (2) Provisions of Code Section 12-8-31.1, relating to solid waste planning;
  (3) Provisions of Code Section 48-13-56, relating to reporting of excise taxes collected and expended pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 13 of Title 48; and
  (4) Provisions of Code Section 36-81-8, relating to reporting of local government finances, reporting of revenues derived from a tax levied pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 13 of Title 48, and reporting of local government services and operations.
(f) When a chartering local Act so provides for a transition period, upon the termination of the transition period subsections (b) through (e) of this Code section shall cease to apply and the new city shall be a fully functioning municipal corporation and subject to all general laws of this state.
(g) As of the date a chartering local Act is approved by the Governor or becomes law without such approval, the Governor is authorized to appoint five persons to serve as interim representatives of the newly incorporated municipality until the election of the municipality's first governing authority. The interim representatives shall cease to serve as of the time the members of the first governing authority take office. The function of the interim representatives shall be to facilitate the provision of municipal services and facilities, the collection of taxes and fees, and the negotiation of intergovernmental agreements in preparation of the establishment of the new municipality. The interim representatives shall not have the ability to enter into any binding agreements, to expend public funds, or to incur any liability on behalf of the new municipality. Any person who is serving as or has served as an interim representative shall be ineligible to qualify for election as a member of the initial governing authority of the new municipality.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 3-32, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 36, eff. 5/1/2012.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 34,§ 3, eff. 4/15/2005.
