# § 20-2B-27. [See Note] Student achievement; tests and assessments; graduation rates

(a)
  (1) In order to allow parents and taxpayers to measure the achievements of the program, the education savings authority shall annually approve no fewer than three nationally norm-referenced tests that measure student academic progress in math and language arts.
  (2) Private schools enrolling participating students shall ensure that at least one of the following is administered each school year to each participating student:
    (A) A nationally norm-referenced test approved by the education savings authority, as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection; or
    (B) A state-wide assessment administered pursuant to Code Section 20-2-281, if such participating student is enrolled in a grade for which such state-wide assessment is administered. Such state-wide assessment shall be made available to such participating student by his or her resident school system.
  (3) The education savings authority shall develop a process for the annual administration of the nationally norm-referenced tests and the state-wide assessments provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection and for the collection of results for participating students not enrolled full time in a private school.
(b) The results of such norm-referenced tests and state-wide assessments shall be provided to and collected by the education savings authority or an organization chosen by the education savings authority on an annual basis.
(c) Student information shall be reported and collected in a manner that allows the state to aggregate data by grade level, gender, race, socioeconomic status, and English language proficiency.
(d) The education savings authority or an organization chosen by the education savings authority shall collect information regarding the high school graduation rate of all participating students.

## History

Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-1, eff. 6/30/2035, or ten years after it becomes effective, whichever is later; provided, however, that any student who is qualified under the program prior to such repeal of Part II shall continue to be eligible under the program until the student returns to a public school, graduates from high school, or reaches the age of 20 years, or for any special education student, reaches the age of 21 years.
Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-1, eff. only if the "Quality Basic Education Act," as provided for in Article 6 of Chapter 2 of Title 20, is fully funded, app. to school years beginning on 7/1/2025, and continuing thereafter.
