# § 20-2B-21. [See Note] Definitions

(1) "Account" or "promise scholarship account" means a consumer directed account established pursuant to this article and composed of state funds deposited on behalf of a participating student and which may be used for qualified education expenses.
(2) "Account funds" means the funds awarded on behalf of a participating student.
(3) "Curriculum" or "curricula" means a complete course of study for a particular content area or grade level, including any supplemental materials required by the course of study.
(4) "Education savings authority" means the Georgia Education Savings Authority.
(5) "Parent" means a biological parent, legal guardian, custodian, or other person with legal authority to act on behalf of a student.
(6) "Participating school" means a private school that has notified the education savings authority of its intention to participate in the program, that complies with the education savings authority's requirements, and that meets the requirements of Code Section 20-2B-23.
(7) "Participating student" means a student for whom an account has been established pursuant to this article.
(8) "Private school" means a nonpublic school, sectarian or nonsectarian, which is accredited or in the process of becoming accredited by a recognized accrediting agency, as such term is defined in Code Section 20-14-96, or by one or more of the entities listed in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (6) of Code Section 20-3-519.
(9) "Program" means the account program provided pursuant to this article.
(10) "Qualified education expenses" means any one or more of the following:
  (A) Tuition, fees, and required textbooks for eligible core courses and eligible CTAE courses, as such terms are defined in Code Section 20-2-161.3, at a participating school, accredited community college or postsecondary education institution, or nonpublic online learning program or course;
  (B) Tutoring services provided by an educator certified by the Professional Standards Commission;
  (C) Payment for the purchase of a curriculum, including any supplemental materials required by the curriculum;
  (D) Services from a physician or therapist licensed pursuant to Chapter 10A, 28, 33, 34, or 44 of Title 43, including, but not limited to, for occupational, behavioral, physical, or speech-language therapies;
  (E) No more than $500.00 per year to a fee-for-service transportation provider for transportation to or from a participating school or service provider;
  (F) Fees for the management of account funds in accordance with subsection (e) of Code Section 20-2B-26;
  (G) Other expenses authorized by the State Board of Education or the education savings authority; or
  (H) Individual education expenses authorized by a majority of the parent review committee as provided for in Code Section 20-2B-25.
(11) "Resident school system" means the public school system in which the student would be enrolled based on his or her residence.
(12) "Service provider" means a person or entity that provides services that are covered as qualified education expenses other than a participating school.

## History

Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-1, eff. 6/30/2035, or ten years after it becomes effective, whichever is later; provided, however, that any student who is qualified under the program prior to such repeal of Part II shall continue to be eligible under the program until the student returns to a public school, graduates from high school, or reaches the age of 20 years, or for any special education student, reaches the age of 21 years.
Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-1, eff. only if the "Quality Basic Education Act," as provided for in Article 6 of Chapter 2 of Title 20, is fully funded, app. to school years beginning on 7/1/2025, and continuing thereafter.
