# § 20-2B-31. [See Note] Construction with other statutes

(a) Nothing in this article shall be construed to alter or otherwise impact how the full-time equivalent (FTE) program count for each local school system is obtained as provided in Code Section 20-2-160 or how the total funds needed for the Quality Basic Education Program for each local school system are calculated as provided in Code Section 20-2-161. Until such time as a student is withdrawn from enrollment in a local school system in conjunction with qualifying for and accepting a promise scholarship account under this article, such student shall be included in the FTE program count for the local school system in which he or she is enrolled on all dates specified for such counts as provided in Code Section 20-2-160 and for such purposes as provided in Code Section 20-2-161.
(b) Nothing in this article shall be construed to alter or otherwise impact the right of parents to enroll their children in a public school that is located within the school system in which the student resides other than the one to which the student has been assigned by the local board of education if such school has classroom space available after its assigned students have been enrolled, as provided in Code Section 20-2-2131.

## History

Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-1, eff. 6/30/2035, or ten years after it becomes effective, whichever is later; provided, however, that any student who is qualified under the program prior to such repeal of Part II shall continue to be eligible under the program until the student returns to a public school, graduates from high school, or reaches the age of 20 years, or for any special education student, reaches the age of 21 years.
Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-1, eff. only if the "Quality Basic Education Act," as provided for in Article 6 of Chapter 2 of Title 20, is fully funded, app. to school years beginning on 7/1/2025, and continuing thereafter.
