# § 20-2B-25. [See Note] Parent review committee

(a) To assist in the determination of whether certain expenses meet the requirements to be considered a qualified education expense under this article, a parent review committee shall be established.
(b)
  (1) The parent review committee shall comprise one person with relevant knowledge, skills, and abilities and eight parents of participating students appointed by the executive director of the education savings authority. Four of the parents shall reside in local school systems with student enrollment greater than 10,000, and four of the parents shall reside in local school systems with student enrollment less than 10,000.
  (2)
    (A) Members of the parent review committee shall serve for staggered three-year terms and may be reappointed; provided, however, that no individual shall be permitted to serve more than three terms.
    (B) The education savings authority shall adopt rules for staggering the terms of members as required in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph.
  (3) The executive director of the education savings authority or his or her designee shall serve as the chairperson of the parent review committee and shall only vote in the event of a tie.
(c) The education savings authority may request the parent review committee to determine whether an expenditure of account funds from an account qualifies as a qualified education expense under this article.
(d) The education savings authority may request the parent review committee to review appeals of participating schools or service provider application denials pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 20-2B-23.

## History

Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-1, eff. 6/30/2035, or ten years after it becomes effective, whichever is later; provided, however, that any student who is qualified under the program prior to such repeal of Part II shall continue to be eligible under the program until the student returns to a public school, graduates from high school, or reaches the age of 20 years, or for any special education student, reaches the age of 21 years.
Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-1, eff. only if the "Quality Basic Education Act," as provided for in Article 6 of Chapter 2 of Title 20, is fully funded, app. to school years beginning on 7/1/2025, and continuing thereafter.
