# § 20-2B-29. [See Note] Publication of public school performance

(a) In the annual report required by paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 20-14-27, the Office of Student Achievement shall include a separate list of public schools that performed in the lowest 25 percent of all public schools based on the cumulative individual school ratings, as provided for in subsection (d) of Code Section 20-14-33, for the two most recent school years for which the Office of Student Achievement issued such ratings; provided, however, that in the event of a tied rating, the public school with the lower performance in student achievement shall be prioritized; provided, further, however, that such list shall not include any school with more than 50 percent of its enrolled students assigned to an education program provided for in Code Section 20-2-154.1.
(b) By December 1 of each year, the Office of Student Achievement shall publish on its website the list provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section.

## History

Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-1, eff. 6/30/2035, or ten years after it becomes effective, whichever is later; provided, however, that any student who is qualified under the program prior to such repeal of Part II shall continue to be eligible under the program until the student returns to a public school, graduates from high school, or reaches the age of 20 years, or for any special education student, reaches the age of 21 years.
Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2-1, eff. only if the "Quality Basic Education Act," as provided for in Article 6 of Chapter 2 of Title 20, is fully funded, app to school years beginning on 7/1/2025, and continuing thereafter.
