# § 20-2B-4. Officers and duties

The executive director of the commission, or president, if designated by such title by the board of commissioners, shall serve as the executive director or president, if designated by such title by the board of directors, and chief executive officer of the education savings authority. The executive director shall provide for maintenance of accurate and permanent minutes and records of all proceedings and activities of the board of directors and the education savings authority and shall be responsible for and authorized to implement and carry out all administrative powers, duties, and functions of the education savings authority in accordance with governing state and federal laws and rules, regulations, and policies prescribed by the board of directors. The treasurer of the commission shall serve as treasurer of the education savings authority. The treasurer shall receive and disburse all funds made available to or for the use of the education savings authority by the General Assembly or otherwise in accordance with law and as may be directed by the board of directors. The secretary of the commission shall serve as secretary of the education savings authority. Other officers of the commission who are assigned duties and responsibilities relative to the purposes of the education savings authority may be designated as officers of the education savings authority. The foregoing officers and all other employees, professional personnel, agents, experts, consultants, and persons employed or retained by the commission who are assigned duties and responsibilities relative to the purposes of the education savings authority shall perform such assigned duties and responsibilities in accordance with this article. Fidelity bond coverage of officers, employees, and members of the commission provided pursuant to paragraph (4) of Code Section 20-3-235 and covering such persons who are performing duties and responsibilities relative to the education savings authority pursuant to this article shall also be conditioned as to the insured and in such respects and for such sums as the board of directors determines necessary to protect the interests of the education savings authority.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 457,§ 1-1, eff. 4/23/2024.
