# § 37-7-147. Appointment of patient representatives and guardians ad litem; notice provisions; duration and scope of guardianship ad litem

(a) At the time a patient is admitted to any facility under this chapter, that facility shall use diligent efforts to secure the names and addresses of at least two representatives, which names and addresses shall be entered in the patient's clinical record.
(b) The patient may designate one representative; the second representative or, in the absence of designation of one representative by the patient, both representatives shall be selected by the facility. If the facility is to select both representatives, it must make one selection from among the following persons in the order of listing: the patient's mental health care agent, legal guardian, spouse, adult child, parent, attorney, adult next of kin, or adult friend, provided that, in the case of a patient whose representative or representatives have been appointed by the court under Code Section 37-7-62, the facility shall not select a different representative. The second representative shall also be selected from the above list but without regard to the order of listing, provided that the second representative shall not be the person who filed the petition to have the patient admitted to the facility.
(c) If the facility is unable to secure at least two representatives after diligent search or if the department is the guardian of the patient, that fact shall be entered in the patient's clinical record and the facility shall apply to the court in the county of the patient's residence for the appointment of a guardian ad litem, which guardian ad litem shall not be the department. On application of any person or on its own motion, the court may also appoint a guardian ad litem for a patient for whom two representatives have been named whenever the appointment of a guardian ad litem is deemed necessary for protection of the patient's rights. Such guardian ad litem shall also act as representative of the patient and shall have the powers granted to representatives by this chapter.
(d) At any time notice is required by this chapter to be given to the patient's representatives, such notice shall be served on the representatives designated under this Code section. The patient's guardian ad litem, if any, shall likewise be served. Unless otherwise provided, notice may be served in person or by first-class mail. When notice is served by mail, a record shall be made of the date of mailing and shall be placed in the patient's clinical record. Service shall be completed upon mailing.
(e) At any time notice is required by this chapter to be given to the patient, the date on which notice is given shall be entered on the patient's clinical record. If the patient is unable to comprehend the written notice, a reasonable effort shall be made to explain the notice to him or her.
(f) At the time a court enters an order pursuant to this chapter, such order and notice of the date of entry of the order shall be served on the patient and his or her representatives as provided in subsection (d) of this Code section.
(g) Notice of an involuntary patient's admission to a facility shall be given to his or her representatives in writing. If such involuntary admission is to an emergency receiving facility, notice shall also be given by that facility to the patient's representatives by telephone or in person as soon as possible.
(h) In every instance in which a court shall appoint a guardian ad litem for any person pursuant to the terms of this chapter, such guardianship shall be for the limited purpose stated in the order of the court and shall expire automatically after 90 days or after a lesser time stated in the order. The responsibility of the guardian ad litem shall not extend beyond the specific purpose of the appointment.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 836,§ 2-28, eff. 7/1/2022.
