# § 37-7-83. Procedure for continued involuntary hospitalization

(a) If it is necessary to continue involuntary treatment of a hospitalized patient beyond the end of the period during which the treatment facility is currently authorized under this chapter to retain the patient, the chief medical officer prior to the expiration of the period, shall seek an order authorizing such continued treatment in the manner provided in this Code section. The chief medical officer may seek such an order authorizing continued involuntary treatment involving inpatient treatment, outpatient treatment, or both under the procedures of this Code section and Code Section 37-7-93.
(b) If the chief medical officer finds that continued involuntary treatment is necessary (1) for an individual who was admitted while serving a criminal sentence but whose sentence is about to expire or (2) for an individual who was hospitalized while under the jurisdiction of a juvenile court but who is about to reach the age of 17, the chief medical officer shall seek an order authorizing such continued treatment in the manner provided in this Code section; and this chapter shall apply fully to such a patient after that time.
(c) A Committee for Continued Involuntary Treatment Review shall be established by the chief medical officer of each hospital and shall consist of not less than five persons of professional status, at least one of whom shall be a physician and at least two others of whom shall be either physicians or psychologists. The committee may conduct its meetings with a quorum of any three members at least one of whom shall be a physician. The function of this committee shall be to review and evaluate the updated individualized treatment plan of each patient of the hospital and to report to the chief medical officer its recommendations concerning the patient's need for continued involuntary treatment. No person who has responsibility for the care and treatment of the individual patient for whom continued involuntary treatment is requested shall serve on any committee which reviews such individual's case.
(d) If the chief medical officer desires to seek an order under this Code section authorizing continued involuntary treatment for up to 12 months beyond the expiration of the currently authorized period of hospitalization, he shall first file a notice of such intended action with the Committee for Continued Involuntary Treatment Review, which notice shall be forwarded to the committee at least 60 days prior to the expiration of that period.
(e) Within ten days of the date of the notice, the committee shall meet to consider the matter of the chief medical officer's intention to seek an order for continued involuntary treatment. Prior to the committee's meeting, the patient and his representatives shall be notified of the following: the purpose of such meeting, the time and place of such meeting, their right to be present at such meeting, and their right to present any alternative individualized treatment plan secured at their expense. In those cases in which the patient will not or cannot appear, at least one member of the committee will make all reasonable efforts to interview the patient and report to the committee. The physician or psychologist proposing the treatment plan shall present an updated individualized treatment plan for the patient to the committee. The committee shall report to the chief medical officer or his designee, other than the physician or psychologist proposing the treatment plan or a member of the committee, its written recommendations along with any minority recommendations which may also be submitted. Such report will specify whether or not the patient is an alcoholic, a drug dependent individual, or a drug abuser requiring involuntary treatment and whether continued hospitalization is the least restrictive alternative available.
(f) If, after considering the committee's recommendations and minority recommendations, if any, the chief medical officer or his designee, other than the attending physician or a member of the committee, determines that the patient is not an alcoholic, a drug dependent individual, or a drug abuser requiring involuntary treatment, the patient shall be immediately discharged from involuntary hospitalization pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 37-7-85. Such person may apply for voluntary admission pursuant to Code Section 37-7-24.
(g) If after considering the committee's recommendations and minority recommendations, if any, the chief medical officer or his designee, other than the attending physician or member of the committee, determines that the patient is an alcoholic, a drug dependent individual, or a drug abuser requiring involuntary treatment, he shall, within ten days after receiving the committee's recommendations, serve a petition for an order authorizing continued involuntary treatment along with copies of the updated individualized treatment plan and the committee's report on the designated office within the department and shall also serve such petition along with a copy of the updated individualized treatment plan on the patient. A copy of the petition shall be served on the patient's representatives. The petition shall contain a plain and simple statement that the patient or his representatives may file a request for a hearing with a hearing examiner appointed pursuant to Code Section 37-7-84 within 15 days after service of the petition, that the patient has a right to counsel, that the patient or his representatives may apply immediately to the court to have counsel appointed if the patient cannot afford counsel, and that the court will appoint counsel for the patient unless the patient indicates in writing that he does not desire to be represented by counsel or has made his own arrangements for counsel.
(h) If a hearing is not requested by the patient or the representatives within 15 days of service of the petition on the patient and his representatives, the hearing examiner shall make an independent review of the committee's report, the updated individualized treatment plan, and the petition. If he concludes that continued involuntary treatment may not be necessary or if he finds any member of the committee so concluded, then he shall order that a hearing be held pursuant to subsection (i) of this Code section. If he concludes that continued involuntary treatment is necessary, then he shall order continued involuntary treatment involving inpatient treatment, outpatient treatment, or both for a period not to exceed one year.
(i) If a hearing is requested within 15 days of service of the petition on the patient and his representatives or if the hearing examiner orders a hearing pursuant to subsection (h) or (j) of this Code section, the hearing examiner shall set a time and place for the hearing to be held within 25 days of the time the hearing examiner receives the request but in any event no later than the day on which the current order of involuntary inpatient treatment expires. Notice of the hearing shall be served on the patient, his representatives, the facility, and, when appropriate, on counsel for the patient. The hearing examiner, within his discretion, may grant a change of venue for the convenience of parties or witnesses. Such hearing shall be a full and fair hearing, except that the patient's attorney, when the patient is unable to attend the hearing and is incapable of consenting to a waiver of his appearance, may move that the patient not be required to appear; however, the record shall reflect the reasons for the hearing examiner's actions. After such hearing, the hearing examiner may issue any order which the court is authorized to issue under Code Section 37-7-81.1 and subject to the limitations of that Code Section 37-7-81.1, provided that a patient who is an outpatient who does not meet the requirements for discharge under paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 37-7-81.1 shall nevertheless be discharged and provided that the hearing examiner may order the patient's continued inpatient treatment, outpatient treatment, or both for a period not to exceed one year, subject to the power to discharge the patient under subsection (b) of Code Section 37-7-85 or under Code Section 37-7-94. In the event that an order approving continued hospitalization is entered for an individual who was admitted while serving a criminal sentence under the jurisdiction of the Department of Corrections, but whose sentence is about to expire, the chief medical officer shall serve a copy of that order upon the Department of Corrections within five working days of the issuance of the order.
(j) The hearing examiner for a patient who was admitted under the jurisdiction of the juvenile court and who reaches the age of 17 without having had a full and fair hearing pursuant to any provisions of this chapter or without having waived such hearing shall order that a hearing be held pursuant to subsection (i) of this Code section.
