# § 37-7-41. Emergency involuntary treatment; who may certify need; delivery for examination; report of delivery required; annual report

(a) Any physician within this state may execute a certificate stating that he has personally examined a person within the preceding 48 hours and found that, based upon observations set forth in the certificate, the person appears to be an alcoholic, a drug dependent individual, or a drug abuser requiring involuntary treatment. A physician's certificate shall expire seven days after it is executed. Any peace officer, within 72 hours after receiving such certificate, shall make diligent efforts to take into custody the person named in the certificate and to deliver him forthwith to the nearest available emergency receiving facility serving the county in which the patient is found, where he shall be received for examination.
(b) The appropriate court of the county in which a person may be found may issue an order commanding any peace officer to take such person into custody and deliver him forthwith for examination, either to the nearest available emergency receiving facility serving the county in which the patient is found, where such person shall be received for examination, or to a physician who has agreed to examine such patient and who will provide, where appropriate, a certificate pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section to permit delivery of such patient to an emergency receiving facility pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section. Such order may only be issued if based either upon an unexpired physician's certificate, as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, or upon the affidavits of at least two persons who attest that, within the preceding 48 hours, they have seen the person to be taken into custody and that, based upon observations contained in their affidavit, they have reason to believe such person is an alcoholic, a drug dependent individual, or a drug abuser requiring involuntary treatment. The court order shall expire seven days after it is executed.
(c) Any peace officer taking into custody and delivering for examination a person, as authorized by subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section, shall execute a written report detailing the circumstances under which such person was taken into custody. The report and either the physician's certificate or court order authorizing such custody shall be made a part of the patient's record.
(d) Any psychologist, clinical social worker, licensed professional counselor, marriage and family therapist, or clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health may perform any act specified by this Code section to be performed by a physician. Any reference in any part of this chapter to a physician acting under this Code section shall be deemed to refer equally to a psychologist, a clinical social worker, a licensed professional counselor, a marriage and family therapist, or a clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health acting under this Code section. For purposes of this Code section, the term "psychologist" means any person authorized under the laws of this state to practice as a licensed psychologist; the term "clinical social worker" means any person authorized under the laws of this state to practice as a licensed clinical social worker; the term "licensed professional counselor" means any person authorized under the laws of this state to practice as a licensed professional counselor; the term "marriage and family therapist" means any person authorized under the laws of this state to practice as a licensed marriage and family therapist; and the term "clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health" means any person authorized under the laws of this state to practice as a registered professional nurse and who is recognized by the Georgia Board of Nursing to be engaged in advanced nursing practice as a clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health.
(e) No later than February 15, 2023, and annually thereafter, the department shall prepare a report with de-identified, aggregated data from the written reports required by subsection (b) of Code Section 37-7-40 to the General Assembly, the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives during each regular legislative session. The annual report shall include the following data from the previous calendar year:
  (1) The total number of certificates received at the emergency receiving facility by county from which the certificate was issued;
  (2) The total number of certificates received at the emergency receiving facility by each type of licensed professional authorized by this Code section;
  (3) The total number of individuals examined in each emergency receiving facility designated or utilized by the department in accordance with subsection (a) of this Code section; and
  (4) The total number of individuals admitted to each emergency receiving facility designated or utilized by the department following an examination in accordance with subsection (a) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 280,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 231,§ 1, eff. 5/8/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 37, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 8,§ 1, eff. 3/10/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 546,§ 2, eff. 4/21/2014.
