# § 3-9-7. Nonprofit distiller license to nonprofit museum; requirements

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "nonprofit museum" means a museum whose mission includes educating the public about the local, state, and national history of the United States and that is owned and operated by a bona fide nonprofit civic organization which holds title to improved real property with a structure listed on the National Register of Historic Places.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision contained in this title or any other law, the commissioner may issue a nonprofit distiller license to a nonprofit museum, regardless of whether or not such nonprofit museum holds an annual license to sell malt beverages, wine, or distilled spirits for consumption on the premises, upon the filing of an application and payment of an annual occupational license tax of $100.00. Such nonprofit distiller license shall entitle the nonprofit museum to produce distilled spirits, provided that:
  (1) The nonprofit museum shall not produce more than 800 liters of distilled spirits each calendar year;
  (2) The nonprofit museum is located in a county or municipality where the production of distilled spirits is authorized, and the local governing authority of such county or municipality has issued a license to the nonprofit museum pursuant to Code Section 3-3-2 for the production of distilled spirits;
  (3) The production of distilled spirits, except as otherwise provided in this Code section, shall be used for educational purposes only;
  (4) The distilled spirits produced by the nonprofit museum shall be stored and aged only on the premises of the nonprofit museum for which the nonprofit distiller license has been issued and shall not be removed from such premises except through disposal methods consistent with federal and state law and any applicable rules or regulations promulgated thereunder; and
  (5) The distilled spirits produced by the nonprofit museum shall only be used on the premises of the nonprofit museum for which the nonprofit distiller license has been issued and only to provide samples pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section. Such distilled spirits shall not be sold or offered for sale by the nonprofit museum to any person or entity.
(c) The nonprofit distiller license shall authorize the nonprofit museum to provide not more than one-half of one ounce as a complimentary sample of the distilled spirits produced at the nonprofit museum to a guest who has completed an educational tour of the distillery at the nonprofit museum and is of legal drinking age; provided, however, that the nonprofit museum shall not impose a separate charge for the sample and shall not provide, directly or indirectly, more than one sample to a guest in a calendar day. Such sample shall be provided in a designated tasting area on the premises of the nonprofit museum for which the nonprofit distiller license has been issued, and all open bottles shall be visible at all times.
(d) No bond shall be required to be filed with the commissioner for the initial application or the annual renewal application of a nonprofit distiller license.
(e) The annual license fee to be charged by a county or municipality for a nonprofit distiller license shall not be more than $100.00 for each license.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 631,§ 2, eff. 4/26/2014.
