# § 19-14-20. Creation; funding; use of funds; reporting

(a)
  (1) The State Children's Trust Fund is created as a separate fund in the state treasury. The director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the Department of Human Services shall be the trustee of the fund.
  (2) The state treasurer shall invest the money held in the State Children's Trust Fund in the same manner in which state funds are invested as authorized by the State Depository Board pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 17 of Title 50. Interest earned by the money held in the trust fund shall be accounted for separately and shall be credited to the trust fund to be disbursed as other moneys in the trust fund.
(b) Under the authority granted and subject to the conditions imposed by Article III, Section IX, Paragraph VI(r) of the Constitution of Georgia, for the period beginning on July 1, 2022, and ending on June 30, 2032, all of the money collected pursuant to Code Sections 15-6-77.4 and 15-9-60 shall be annually appropriated to the State Children's Trust Fund established by subsection (a) of this Code section and such funds shall not lapse as otherwise required by Article III, Section IX, Paragraph IV(c) of the Constitution of Georgia. Each annual appropriation shall be made through the General Appropriations Act and shall include all of the money collected from such sources during the most recently completed fiscal year.
(c) The State Children's Trust Fund may accept federal funds granted by Congress or executive order for the purposes of the fund as well as gifts and donations from individuals, private organizations, or foundations. The acceptance and use of federal funds does not commit state funds and does not place an obligation upon the General Assembly to continue the purposes for which the federal funds are made available. All funds received in the manner described in this subsection shall be transmitted to the state treasurer for deposit in the fund to be disbursed as other moneys in such fund.
(d) All of the money appropriated to the State Children's Trust Fund pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall be dedicated for use and expended by the director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the Department of Human Services only for the following purposes:
  (1) To carry out the prevention and community based service programs as provided for in Part 2 of Article 6 of Chapter 5 of Title 49;
  (2) To carry out the duties relating to mentoring as provided for in Part 3 of Article 6 of Chapter 5 of Title 49;
  (3) To cooperate with and secure cooperation of every department, agency, or instrumentality in the state government or its political subdivisions in the furtherance of the purposes of this article;
  (4) To prepare, publish in print or electronically, and disseminate fundamental child related information of a descriptive and analytical nature to all components of the children's service system of this state, including, but not limited to, the juvenile justice system;
  (5) To serve as a state-wide clearing-house for child related information and research;
  (6) In coordination and cooperation with all components of the children's service systems of this state, to develop legislative proposals and executive policy proposals reflective of the priorities of the entire child related systems of this state, including, but not limited to, child abuse injury prevention, treatment, and juvenile justice systems;
  (7) To serve in an advisory capacity to the Governor on issues impacting the children's service systems of this state;
  (8) To coordinate high visibility child related research projects and studies with a state-wide impact when those studies and projects cross traditional system component lines;
  (9) To provide for the interaction, communication, and coordination of all components of the children's service systems of this state and to provide assistance in establishing state-wide goals and standards in the system;
  (10) To provide for the effective coordination and communication between providers of children and youth services, including pediatrics, health, mental health, business and industry, and all components of social services, education, and educational services;
  (11) To encourage and facilitate the establishment of local commissions or coalitions on children and youth and to facilitate the involvement of communities in providing services for children and youth;
  (12) To review and develop an integrated state plan for services provided to children and youth in this state through state programs;
  (13) To provide technical assistance and consultation to local governments, particularly those involved in providing services to children and youth;
  (14) To facilitate elimination of unnecessary or duplicative efforts, programs, and services; and
  (15) To do any and all things necessary and proper to enable it to perform wholly and adequately its duties and to exercise the authority granted to it.
(e) The director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the Department of Human Services shall prepare an accounting of the funds expended pursuant to this Code section during the most recently completed fiscal year to be provided to the Office of Planning and Budget, the House Budget and Research Office, and the Senate Budget and Evaluation Office by January 1 of each year.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 290,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 562,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2008.
