# § 12-3-193. Members of association; terms; vacancies; officers; bylaws; quorum; reimbursement for expenses; compensation of employees; books and records

(a) The association shall be composed of the commissioner of natural resources or his or her designee and eight members to be appointed by the Governor, one of whom shall be a resident of the metropolitan Atlanta area. The members appointed by the Governor shall be appointed for terms of four years, with the beginning and ending dates of terms to be specified by the Governor, and until the appointment and qualification of their successors, except that the fourth member to be appointed by the Governor as provided for in this part shall be appointed for an initial term of three years and until the appointment and qualification of his or her successor, and except that the members of the association appointed by the Governor and in office on July 1, 1978, shall continue in office until the expiration of the terms for which they were appointed and until the appointment and qualification of their successors, and except that the fifth member to be appointed by the Governor shall be appointed for an initial term beginning July 1, 1985, and ending December 31, 1987, and until the appointment and qualification of a successor. Appointments by the Governor to fill vacancies on the association shall be made for the unexpired term.
(b) The Governor shall appoint the chairperson of the association for a term of one year from among the members of the association which the Governor appoints. A member may serve no more than two consecutive terms as chairperson nor more than two terms as chairperson in any one four-year term as a member of the association. The association shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer who need not be members. The office of secretary and treasurer may be combined in one person.
(c) The association may make such bylaws for its government as is deemed necessary but is under no duty to do so.
(d) Any five members of the association shall constitute a quorum necessary for the transaction of business, and a majority vote of those present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be sufficient to do and perform any action permitted to the association by this part. No vacancy on the association shall impair the right of a quorum to transact any and all business as aforesaid.
(e) The members shall receive no compensation for their services, but all members shall be entitled to be reimbursed for actual expenses, including travel and any other expenses, incurred while in the performance of their duties. Employees of the association shall receive reasonable compensation, to be determined by the members of the association, for their services.
(f) Members of the association shall be accountable as trustees. They shall cause to be kept adequate books and records of all transactions of the association, including records of income and disbursements of every nature. The books and records shall be inspected and audited by the state auditor at least once in each year.
