# § 12-3-444. Membership; officers; compensation; quorum; meetings

(a) The authority shall be composed of five members as follows:
  (1) The Governor;
  (2) The commissioner of natural resources;
  (3) The executive director of the State Properties Commission;
  (4) A resident of the community of Hog Hammock described in paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of Code Section 12-3-441 to be appointed by the Governor for a term of four years; and
  (5) The Commissioner of Human Relations in the office of the Governor; provided, however, that if a vacancy exists in such office for longer than 60 consecutive days, the Governor shall appoint instead a second resident of the community of Hog Hammock for a term of four years, after which the Commissioner of Human Relations, if such office is then occupied, shall become a member. Vacancies in the appointed positions shall be filled for the remainder of the term by appointment of the Governor.
(b) The Governor shall be the chairperson of the authority, the commissioner of natural resources shall be its vice chairperson, and the executive director of the State Properties Commission shall be its secretary-treasurer.
(c) The members of the authority who are officers of the state shall not be entitled to any additional compensation for the rendering of their services to the authority. The members of the authority who are not public officers shall be entitled to reimbursement for their actual travel expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties and, for each day actually spent in performance of their duties, shall receive the same per diem as do members of the General Assembly.
(d) Three members shall constitute a quorum of the membership of the authority. The powers and duties of the authority shall be transacted, exercised, and performed only pursuant to an affirmative vote of a majority of those members of the authority present at a meeting at which a quorum is present. An abstention in voting shall be considered as that member voting in the negative on the matter before the authority.
(e) Meetings of the authority shall be held on the written notice of the chairperson. The notice of a meeting shall set forth therein the date, time, and place of the meeting. Minutes shall be kept of all meetings of the authority, and in the minutes there shall be kept a record of the vote of each member of the authority on all questions, acquisitions, transactions, and all other matters coming before the authority.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 12, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 979, § 1, eff. 5/16/2002.
