# § 12-3-243.1. Master plan as to Jekyll Island; maintenance; contents; adherence to plan; amendments

(a) The authority shall maintain a master plan for the management, preservation, protection, and development of Jekyll Island. The master plan shall delineate, based upon aerial survey, the present and permitted future uses of the land area of Jekyll Island and shall designate areas to be managed as environmentally sensitive, historically sensitive, and active use areas.
(b) The authority, in the exercise of its authority to develop, manage, preserve, and protect Jekyll Island, shall be guided by and shall adhere to the master plan as the same may from time to time be amended as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(c) The authority may, from time to time, amend the master plan but only in compliance with the following procedure:
  (1) Any proposed amendment to the master plan shall be described in written form and, if capable of such description, in visual form and presented publicly at a regular meeting of the authority;
  (2) After the proposed amendment is presented publicly at a regular meeting of the authority, a brief summary of the proposed amendment shall be advertised in the legal organs of Glynn and Fulton counties, distributed to the media by news release, and published in appropriate publications of the authority. Each such advertisement, news release, and publication shall also contain:
    (A) The time and place of the public hearing on the proposed amendment, which public hearing shall be held no earlier than 15 days after the latest publication of the advertisement in the legal organ of Glynn or Fulton County as required by this paragraph;
    (B) Directions as to the manner of receiving comments from the public regarding the proposed amendment; and
    (C) The date on which the meeting of the authority at which the proposed amendment will be considered for approval or rejection, which meeting shall not be held any sooner than 30 days after the meeting of the authority at which the proposed amendment was announced pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection;
  (3) The authority shall transmit by certified mail or personal service copies of the information required by paragraph (2) of this subsection and a complete copy of the proposed amendment to the Speaker of the House, President of the Senate, members of the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority Oversight Committee, and Office of Legislative Counsel at least 60 days prior to the date of the meeting at which the proposed amendment will be considered. The presiding officers of each house, or the Office of Legislative Counsel if a presiding officer is unavailable, shall then provide copies to any member of the General Assembly who makes, or has made, a standing written request;
  (4) In the event the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority Oversight Committee files an objection to a proposed amendment to the master plan with the chairperson of the authority prior to the authority's taking action on the proposed amendment, then the same shall be stayed. Thereafter, by introduction of a resolution to consider the committee's objection within the first 30 days of the next regular session of the General Assembly, the objection may be considered for ratification by the General Assembly. In the event the resolution is adopted by a vote of two-thirds of the members of each branch, the amendment to the master plan shall not be adopted by the authority. In the event the resolution is ratified by a vote of less than two-thirds of the members of either house, the resolution shall be submitted to the Governor for approval or veto. In the event the resolution fails to pass both houses or is vetoed by the Governor, the amendment to the master plan may be adopted by the authority and the stay of the committee shall be lifted. In the event of the Governor's approval of the resolution, the amendment to the master plan shall be prohibited;
  (5) Any proposed development of the 78 acres available for development under subparagraph (a)(1)(B) of Code Section 12-3-243 shall be surveyed and marked at least seven days prior to the public hearing required by paragraph (2) of this subsection in such a fashion as to be readily discernible on the ground by members of the public; and
  (6) At the meeting of the authority which has been identified in the advertisement required by paragraph (2) of this subsection as the meeting to consider the approval or rejection of the proposed amendment, the authority shall consider in an open and public meeting the proposed amendment to the master plan which, if approved, shall become a part of the master plan, subject, however, to the provisions of paragraph (4) of this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 480,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 479,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 367,§ 8, eff. 5/30/2007.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 12, eff. 2/12/2001.
