# § 12-3-198. Location, construction, improvement, and maintenance of highways, roads, streets, and rights of way

(a) The State Transportation Board is authorized to make such studies and estimates in connection with the location and relocation of highways, roads, streets, and rights of way in connection with the project, whether within or without the project area, as may be necessary to the relocation of any roads, streets, or highways within the property of the association. The board shall, at the expense of the Department of Transportation, relocate such roads, streets, and highways so as to conform to the plan of the association for the development and improvement of the project.
(b) The association may grant rights of way and easements for highways and roads within the project area to the Department of Transportation. The Department of Transportation is authorized to lay out, construct, improve, and maintain any such roads and rights of way. The cost of any such undertaking shall be deemed to be a proper and legitimate expense of the Department of Transportation.
(c) The State Transportation Board or its successors and the Department of Transportation are empowered to acquire, in any manner permitted by law, real property, any interest therein, or rights of way for the location and relocation of highways and roads located in proximity to the project. The board and the department are authorized to expend any available funds for the purpose of such locating and relocating and for constructing, improving, and maintaining any such highways and roads; and the cost of any such undertaking shall be deemed a proper and legitimate expense of such board or department.
