# § 12-3-401. Definitions

(1) "Authority" means the Oconee River Greenway Authority.
(2) "Cost of the project" means the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges; interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, and legal expenses and of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this part, the construction of any project, and the placing of the same in operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of such bonds or obligations as may be issued by any authority, department, commission, or agency of the State of Georgia.
(3) "Geographic jurisdiction of the authority" means Baldwin County and, subject to approval and upon such terms as agreed to by the authority and the governing authority of any county to be added, any other county bordered by or through which flows the Oconee River or any impounded waters thereof.
(4) "Project" means real property which borders, or is contiguous to real property which borders, the Oconee River or any impounded waters thereof in any county or counties within the geographic jurisdiction of the authority and improvements thereto of every kind and character deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for its corporate purpose.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 190, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 833,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
Former Part 6 consisting of §§ 400 through 427 was repealed and reserved by 2001 Ga. Laws 280, § 2.
