# § 12-3-312. Membership of authority; election of officers; bylaws; quorum; action by majority vote; voting by proxy; effect of vacancy; reimbursement for expenses; compensation of employees

(a) The authority shall consist of nine members as follows: the commissioner of natural resources or his or her designee and eight additional members appointed by the Governor as follows:
  (1) Five members from the state at large;
  (2) One member from Forsyth County;
  (3) One member from Hall County; and
  (4) One member from Gwinnett County. Each member appointed by the Governor under this Code section shall serve for a term of four years, with the beginning and ending dates of terms to be specified by the Governor, and until his or her successor is appointed and has qualified.
(b) The Governor shall appoint the chairperson of the authority for a term of one year from among the members of the authority. A member may serve no more than two consecutive terms as chairperson nor more than two terms as chairperson in any one four-year term as a member of the authority. The members of the authority shall elect one of their members as vice chairperson. They shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer who need not be members. The office of secretary and treasurer may be combined in one person.
(c) The authority may make such bylaws for its government as is deemed necessary, but it is under no obligation to do so.
(d) Any five members of the authority shall constitute a quorum necessary for the transaction of business; and a majority vote of those present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be sufficient to do and perform any action permitted to the authority by this part. However, no person shall be entitled to exercise or cast a proxy vote for any member. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of a quorum to transact any and all business as aforesaid.
(e) The members shall receive no compensation for their services, but all members shall be entitled to be reimbursed for actual expenses, including travel and any other expenses, incurred while in the performance of their duties. Employees of the authority shall receive reasonable compensation, to be determined by the members of the authority, for their services.
(f) All members of the authority shall immediately enter upon their duties without further act or formality.
