# § 12-3-318. Purposes for which income, gifts, grants, appropriations, bonds, or loans may be used; consultation with others; projects for Lake Lanier Watershed area

(a) All income, revenues, gifts, grants, appropriations, bond or loan proceeds, and rights and privileges of value of every nature accruing to the authority shall be used:
  (1) Primarily for the purpose of beautifying, improving, developing, maintaining, administering, managing, and promoting the islands in Lake Lanier; and
  (2) Secondarily for the purpose of beautifying, improving, developing, maintaining, administering, managing, and promoting any other real property which is:
    (A) Under the management and control of the department or the North Georgia Mountains Authority whether held in fee simple or under or through a contract, license, lease, or other similar agreement with an agency of the federal government; and
    (B) Adjacent to any lake or reservoir in this state that is under the management and control of the United States Army Corps of Engineers.
(b) The authority shall accomplish the purposes provided in subsection (a) of this Code section at the lowest rates reasonable and possible for the benefit of the people of the State of Georgia for recreational purposes.
(c) Prior to authorizing the expenditure of funds for any of the secondary purposes set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section, the authority shall consult with the Senate Economic Development Committee, the House Committee on Game, Fish, and Parks, and the Governor for the purpose of assistance in establishing the priority of needs among the real properties eligible to receive the benefit of such expenditure.
(d) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, with regard to revenues received by the authority from property management contracts or agreements or leases of real property by the authority, 75 percent of all such revenues shall be retained by the authority for use in projects in the Lake Lanier Watershed area.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 74,§ 5, eff. 4/30/2009.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 34, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
