# § 12-3-210. Revenue bonds - Securing bonds by trust indenture

(a) In the discretion of the association, any issue of bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the association and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company within or outside of the state.
(b) Resolutions providing for the issuance of bonds and trust indentures may contain such provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholders, including the right to the appointment of a receiver for the project upon the default of any principal or interest payment upon the bonds thereof, and including the right of any receiver or indenture trustee to enforce collections of rents, revenues, or other charges for the use of the project necessary to pay all costs of operation, the principal and interest on the issue, the cost of collection, and all things reasonably necessary to accomplish the collection of such sums, in the event of any default of the association.
(c) Such resolutions or trust indentures may include covenants setting forth the duties of the association in relation to the acquisition of the property, the construction of the project, the maintenance, operation, repair, and insurance of the project, and the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional bonds may be issued. An indenture may also set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations. In addition, an indenture may contain such other provisions as the association may deem advisable, reasonable, and proper for the security of the bondholders.
(d) It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the association.
(e) All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated either as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture or as an administrative expense of the association.
