# § 12-3-11. Civil penalty; reports to department by clerk of court regarding disposition of actions; compensation of clerk for reports

Any person who violates any provision of Code Section 12-3-9 or 12-3-10 or the provisions of any law administered by the department concerning parks, historic sites, and recreational areas, or any regulations or orders promulgated and administered thereunder, shall be liable civilly for a penalty in a maximum amount of $1,000.00 for each and every violation thereof, such civil penalty to be recoverable by a civil action brought in the name of the commissioner of natural resources by the prosecuting attorney of the county in which the alleged violator resides. The commissioner on his motion may, or, upon complaint of any interested party charging a violation, shall refer the matter directly to the prosecuting attorney of the county in which the violator resides. The proceeds from all civil penalties arising from enforcement of such laws, regulations, and orders shall, except as otherwise provided in this Code section, be applied initially toward payment of the proper officers of the trial court as prescribed by law. The money remaining after such officers have been compensated shall be remitted promptly by the clerk of the court in which the case is disposed of to the treasurer of the county in which the civil penalty is assessed, or other officer having charge of the fiscal affairs of the county, who shall deposit the funds in the general fund of the county, such funds to be allocated to the county board of education for school purposes. The clerk of the court in which each case is disposed shall promptly make a written report to the department showing the disposition of each case. For making each report, he shall be entitled to an additional fee of $1.00 in each case, unless otherwise prohibited by law, to be added to the costs allowed by law against the defendant, to be retained by the clerk as his special compensation for making the report. The civil penalty prescribed in this Code section shall be concurrent with, alternative to, and cumulative of any and all other civil, criminal, or alternative rights, remedies, forfeitures, or penalties provided, allowed, or available to the department with respect to any violation of the laws administered by the department and any regulations or orders promulgated and administered thereunder.
