# § 12-3-22. Reporting requirements; enforcement

The Stone Mountain Memorial Association, the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority, the North Georgia Mountains Authority, and the Lake Lanier Islands Development Authority shall cooperate with the committee, its agents, the Attorney General, the state auditor, the state accounting officer, and other state agencies in order that the duties of the committee set forth in this part may be timely and efficiently discharged. Each of the named authorities shall submit to the committee such reports and data as the committee shall reasonably require of the authority in order that the committee may adequately perform its functions. At least annually the commissioner of natural resources and the department's director of state parks and historic sites shall make a report to the committee of any legislative changes or revisions that may be needed to assist the named authorities in accomplishing their statutory duties and functions as provided in this chapter, either individually or as a group. The Attorney General is authorized to bring appropriate legal actions to enforce any laws specifically or generally relating to the authorities named in this part. The committee shall, on or before the first day of January of each year, and at such other times as it deems necessary, submit to the chairpersons of the appropriate standing committees of each house of the General Assembly a report of its findings and recommendations based upon the review of each of the named authorities, as set forth in this part.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 140,§ 21, eff. 7/1/2005.
