# § 12-3-521. Definitions

(1) "Authority" means the Georgia Music Hall of Fame Authority.
(2) "Classic Center" means one or more facilities of the Classic Center Authority.
(3) "Classic Center Authority" means the Classic Center Authority for Clarke County, approved March 10, 1988 (Ga. L. 1988, p. 3799), as amended.
(4) "Cost of the project" means the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges; interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; the cost of engineering, architectural, and legal expenses and of plans and specifications and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expenses; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized in this part, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of such bonds or obligations as may be issued by any authority, department, commission, or agency of the State of Georgia.
(5) "Project" means and includes one or a combination of two or more of the following: buildings, facilities, and all structures; electric, gas, steam, water, and sewerage utilities; and improvements of every kind and character deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for its purposes.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 844,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
