# § 12-3-233.1. Jekyll Island Citizens Resource Council; purpose; members; meetings; reimbursement for expenses

(a) The Governor shall appoint a body to be known as the Jekyll Island Citizens Resource Council. The purpose of the Citizens Resource Council shall be to improve, foster, and encourage communication and the exchange of thoughts and ideas between the authority and the community of persons interested in Jekyll Island including, but not limited to, residents of Jekyll Island; owners, operators, and employees of businesses located on or providing services to Jekyll Island; and environmental organizations.
(b) The Citizens Resource Council shall consist of seven members. Three members shall be representative of the Jekyll Island residential and business community with two of these members being residents of Jekyll Island and one being an owner, manager, or employee of a business or commercial facility located on Jekyll Island. Four members shall be appointed at large. The term of each member shall be for two years, provided that of the members first appointed, three shall be appointed for terms of one year, and four for terms of two years. Vacancies shall be filled by similar appointment for unexpired terms.
(c) The Citizens Resource Council shall meet once a month. The meetings shall be attended by the authority's executive director and at least one member of the authority. Once in every calendar quarter, the meeting of the Citizens Resource Council shall be held as a town meeting at which comments and sentiments from the Jekyll Island community at large may be received.
(d) The Citizens Resource Council shall be available to consult with the authority, if requested by the authority to do so, as to the authority's programs, projects, and actions concerning Jekyll Island. The Citizens Resource Council may also, upon request of the authority, review and prepare written comments on proposed authority plans and projects. Such written comments may be submitted to the authority's executive director, the authority, and the Governor.
(e) Members of the Citizens Resource Council shall serve without compensation, but its members who are not employees or officials of state or local governmental entities shall receive reimbursement from funds available to the authority for their actual expenses necessarily incurred in the performance of their duties.
