# § 12-3-292. Membership of authority; officers; bylaws; quorum; action by majority vote; vacancies; reimbursement for expenses; compensation of employees

(a) The authority shall consist of nine members who shall serve terms of four years from the date of their appointment and shall be appointed by the Governor from the same persons who comprise the Board of Natural Resources.
(b) The Governor shall appoint the chairperson of the authority for a term of one year from among the members of the authority. A member may serve no more than two consecutive terms as chairperson nor more than two terms as chairperson in any one four-year term as a member of the authority. The authority shall elect one of its members as vice chairperson. It shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer who need not be members. The office of secretary and treasurer may be combined in one person.
(c) The authority may make such bylaws for its government as is deemed necessary but is under no duty to do so.
(d) Any five members of the authority shall constitute a quorum necessary for the transaction of business; and a majority vote of those present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be sufficient to do and perform any action permitted by this part. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of a quorum to transact any and all business as aforesaid.
(e) The unexpired term of any member who ceases to serve from any cause shall be filled in the same manner that such member was originally appointed to the authority.
(f) The members shall receive no compensation for their services, but all members shall be entitled to be reimbursed for actual expenses, including travel and any other expenses, incurred while in the performance of their duties. Employees of the authority shall receive reasonable compensation, to be determined by the members of the authority, for their services.
