# § 12-3-234. Accountability of authority members as trustees; maintenance of financial records and books; creation of Jekyll Island-State Park Authority Oversight Committee

(a) The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees. The authority shall keep suitable and proper books and records of all receipts, income, and expenditures of every kind and shall submit for inspection all of the books, together with a proper statement of the authority's financial position, once a year on or about December 31 to the state auditor and to the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority Oversight Committee. The books and records shall be inspected and audited by the state auditor at least once in each year. The authority shall also submit a quarterly summary of each lease and contract agreement involving an amount in excess of $50,000.00 to the legislative oversight committee. Upon request, a copy of the lease or contract agreement or other documents so requested shall be provided to the members of the oversight committee.
(b) There is created as a joint committee of the General Assembly the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority Oversight Committee to be composed of three members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House, one of whom shall be from the House Committee on State Properties, and three members of the Senate appointed by the President of the Senate, one of whom shall be from the Senate Committee on State Institutions and Property. The members of the committee shall serve two-year terms concurrent with their terms as members of the General Assembly. The chairperson of the committee shall be appointed by the President of the Senate from the membership of the committee, and the vice chairperson of the committee shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House from the membership of the committee during odd-numbered years. The chairperson of the committee shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House from the membership of the committee, and the vice chairperson of the committee shall be appointed by the President of the Senate from the membership of the committee during even-numbered years. The chairperson and vice chairperson shall serve terms of one year beginning January 1, 2007. Vacancies in an appointed member's position or in the offices of chairperson or vice chairperson of the committee shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. The committee shall advise the General Assembly regarding the authority's compliance with the provisions required by this part. The committee shall meet upon the call of the chairperson.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 12, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 367,§ 5, eff. 5/30/2007.
