# § 12-3-231. Definitions

(1) "Authority" means the Jekyll Island-State Park Authority created by this part.
(2) "Bonds" or "revenue bonds" means any bonds issued by the authority under this part, including refunding bonds.
(3) "Cost of the project" means the cost of construction; the cost of all lands, properties, rights, easements, and franchises acquired; the cost of all machinery and equipment; financing charges; interest prior to and during construction and for one year after completion of construction; cost of engineering; architectural and legal expenses, cost of plans and specifications, and other expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the project; administrative expense; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incident to the financing authorized by this part, the construction of any project, the placing of the same in operation, and the condemnation of property necessary for such construction and operation. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the cost of the project and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of revenue bonds issued under this part for such project.
(4) "Developed land" means land that is built upon or paved or land that has been disturbed and no longer retains original, natural functions. Specific examples include, but are not limited to:
  (A) Roads and bike paths in active use, whether by the authority or the general public;
  (B) Multiuse trails and pathways, whether paved or of pervious surface material;
  (C) Utility easements;
  (D) Firebreaks intended to protect residential areas;
  (E) Man-made ponds and borrow pits; and
  (F) Golf courses.
(5) "Master plan" means that document created under the auspices of and adopted by the authority of Jekyll Island and as it may be amended from time to time pursuant to Code Section 12-3-243.1.
(6) "Park" means present and future parks, parkways, park and recreational resources and facilities of the state or any department, agency, or institution of the state, and any such facility constituting part of the State Parks System and shall specifically include Jekyll Island State Park.
(7) "Project" means any subdivision, hotel, cottage, apartment house, public building, school, utility, dock, facility, watercourse, airport, bridge, golf course, tennis court, or other resort recreational facility. This term also means one or a combination of two or more of the following: buildings and facilities, and all other structures, electric, gas, steam, water, and sewerage utilities and facilities of every kind and character deemed by the authority to be necessary or convenient for the efficient operation of any department, board, commission, authority, or agency of the State of Georgia.
(8) "Undeveloped area" means any area that remains free from the built environment. The term shall include, but not be limited to:
  (A) Marsh and forest where the canopy and understory remain intact;
  (B) Wooded areas that are altered only by installation of firebreaks;
  (C) Dirt roads no longer in use and serving no practical function;
  (D) Dirt footpaths fewer than six feet in width;
  (E) Sand dunes and beach, including associated crossovers; and
  (F) Fresh water wetlands.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 480,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 479,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
