# § 12-3-270. Use of rentals and other charges collected from leases and contracts for projects; obligations under lease contracts with authority; failure or refusal of lessee to perform; assignment of rentals due

(a) The authority is authorized to fix rentals and other charges which any department, board, commission, authority, or agency of the State of Georgia shall pay to the authority for the use of each project, or part thereof, or combination of projects. The authority is also authorized to charge and collect rentals and other charges and to lease and make contracts with any department, board, commission, authority, or agency of the State of Georgia with respect to the use by any institution or unit under its control of any project or part thereof. Such rentals and other charges shall be so fixed and adjusted in respect to the aggregate thereof from the project or projects for which a single issue of revenue bonds is issued as to provide a fund sufficient with other revenues of such project or projects, if any, to pay:
  (1) The cost of maintaining, repairing, and operating the project or projects, including reserves for extraordinary repairs and insurance and other reserves required by the resolution of trust indentures, unless such cost shall be otherwise provided for, which cost shall be deemed to include the expenses incurred by the authority on account of the project or projects for water, light, sewerage, and other services furnished by other facilities at such institution; and
  (2) The principal of the revenue bonds and the interest thereon as the same shall become due.
(b) The rentals contracted to be paid by the state or any department, agency, or institution of the state to the authority under leases entered upon pursuant to this part shall constitute obligations of the state for the payment of which the good faith of the state is pledged. Such rentals shall be paid as provided in the lease contracts from funds appropriated for such purposes by the terms of the Constitution of Georgia. It shall be the duty of the state or any department, agency, or institution of the state to see to the punctual payment of all such rentals.
(c) In the event of any failure or refusal on the part of the lessees punctually to perform any covenant or obligation contained in any lease entered upon pursuant to this part, the authority may enforce performance by any legal or equitable process against lessees, and consent is given for the institution of any such action.
(d) The authority shall be permitted to assign any rental due it by the lessees to a trustee or paying agent as may be required by the terms of any trust indenture entered into by the authority.
