# § 12-3-536. Transferring powers of authority to the Department of Economic Development

(a) Effective July 1, 1998, without diminishing the powers of the authority pursuant to Code Section 12-3-524, all personnel positions authorized by the authority in fiscal year 1998 shall be transferred to the Department of Community Affairs. All employees of the authority on June 30, 1998, whose positions are transferred by the authority to the Department of Community Affairs shall become employees of the Department of Community Affairs and shall become employees in the unclassified service as defined in Code Section 45-20-2.
(b) On April 26, 2005, the functions of the Board of Community Affairs, Department of Community Affairs, and commissioner of community affairs respecting the Music Hall of Fame Authority are transferred to the Department of Economic Development. The commissioner of economic development and the commissioner of community affairs shall arrange administratively for the transfer of records, equipment, and facilities for such transferred functions. The personnel positions authorized by the Department of Community Affairs shall be transferred to the Department of Economic Development, and all employees of the Department of Community Affairs whose positions are transferred shall become employees of the Department of Economic Development with no break in service and in the classified or unclassified service as they were at the Department of Community Affairs.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-5, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 58,§ 13, eff. 4/26/2005.
