# § 12-3-194.1. Police and legislative powers of association; appointment of peace officers; jurisdiction and venue of park offenses; sale of confederate memorabilia

(a)
  (1) The association is empowered to exercise such of the police powers of the state as may be necessary to maintain peace and order and to enforce any and all user and personal conduct restrictions upon the properties and facilities and the persons under its jurisdiction to the extent that such is lawful under the laws of the nation and the state.
  (2) In addition to the powers provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the association is empowered to exercise the police powers of the state in an area extending not more than 500 yards from the park boundaries adjacent to the entrances and exits, other than entrances or exits adjacent to the corporate limits of a municipality, which are used regularly by patrons attending functions at Stone Mountain Park and in an area extending not more than 500 yards from the tennis center.
(b) The association shall have legislative power to adopt reasonable ordinances relating to the property, affairs, and administration of Stone Mountain Park for which no provision has been made by general law and which are not inconsistent with the general laws or the Constitution of this state. The association is further authorized to adopt ordinances adopting by reference any or all of the provisions of Chapter 6 of Title 40 in accordance with Code Section 40-6-372. Within the limits of Stone Mountain Park and within the area described in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section, the association is authorized to appoint peace officers, who are authorized and empowered to serve and execute warrants and to make arrests for violation of ordinances adopted by the association. Within the limits of Stone Mountain Park and within the area described in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section, such peace officers shall have the same authority, powers, and privileges regarding enforcement of laws as peace officers employed by county and municipal police departments of this state. Prosecutions for violations of the ordinances of the association shall be upon citation or upon accusation as provided in Code Sections 15-10-62 and 15-10-63. The association may provide that ordinance violations may be tried upon citations with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as upon accusations in the manner prescribed in Code Section 15-10-63.
(c) For purposes of this Code section, the Magistrate Court of DeKalb County shall have jurisdiction and authority to hear and try those offenses occurring within the limits of Stone Mountain Park which violate the ordinances of the association and to punish violations of such ordinances, all in the manner and to the extent prescribed in Article 4 of Chapter 10 of Title 15. The State Court of DeKalb County shall have jurisdiction and authority to hear and try all cases removed from the Magistrate Court of DeKalb County for jury trial by any defendant charged with one or more violations of the ordinances of the association. The Superior Court of DeKalb County shall have jurisdiction to review all convictions by petition for review to the superior court. The proceedings on such petitions for review shall be governed by Chapter 3 of Title 5. The jurisdiction and authority of the courts of DeKalb County provided for in this Code section shall be in addition to and not in limitation of the jurisdiction and authority of such courts as may be now or hereafter provided.
(d) The Stone Mountain Memorial Association shall continue the practice of stocking, restocking, and sales of confederate memorabilia.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-5, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
