# § 12-3-20. Creation of committee; members and organization; duty to review operations of Stone Mountain Memorial Association, Jekyll Island - State Park Authority, North Georgia Mountains Authority, and Lake Lanier Islands Development Authority

There is created as a joint committee of the General Assembly the Recreational Authorities Overview Committee to be composed of three members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and three members of the Senate appointed by the President of the Senate. The members of the committee shall serve two-year terms concurrent with their terms as members of the General Assembly. The chairperson of the committee shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives from the membership of the committee, and the vice chairperson of the committee shall be appointed by the President of the Senate from the membership of the committee. The chairperson and vice chairperson shall serve terms of two years concurrent with their terms as members of the General Assembly. Vacancies in an appointed member's position or in the offices of chairperson or vice chairperson of the committee shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. The committee shall periodically inquire into and review the operations of the Stone Mountain Memorial Association, the North Georgia Mountains Authority, and the Lake Lanier Islands Development Authority and shall periodically review and evaluate the success with which each of the said authorities is accomplishing its statutory duties and functions as provided in this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 367,§ 2, eff. 5/30/2007.
