# § 12-3-562.1. Joint operation between Georgia Sports Hall of Fame and Georgia Music Hall of Fame; proposals for accomplishing objectives

The Georgia Sports Hall of Fame Authority and the Georgia Music Hall of Fame Authority shall to the maximum extent possible work jointly to realize efficiencies and economies in the operation of their adjacent facilities. The two authorities shall make all possible efforts to consolidate and coordinate marketing, operational, maintenance, property management, and other activities so as to achieve such efficiencies and economies. Not later than September 30, 2010, each such hall of fame authority shall issue a request for proposals for a new location or alternative ownership, management, and operation at the same location for the respective hall of fame facility. Such requests for proposals shall be disseminated to each county and municipal governing authority in the state and shall require that any proposal be submitted not later than December 31, 2010. Any county or municipality wherein such a hall of fame authority is located shall be eligible to submit a proposal; and it is the intention of the General Assembly that such a proposal shall be required as a condition for continued state funding support in a current location. Upon receipt of one or more proposals, the hall of fame authority shall conduct a staff review of each proposal received. A primary consideration in the review of the proposals shall be the effect of each proposal on the current and future operating budgets of the authority and self-sustainability of the authority, including a determination of whether cost savings and operational efficiencies can be effected through moving to a new location or alternative ownership, management, and operation at the same location as proposed. Upon completion of the staff review, the findings shall be submitted to the governing body of the hall of fame authority. Each hall of fame authority shall not later than April 30, 2011, submit to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairpersons of the Senate and House appropriations committees a report detailing the activities of the authority with respect to issuance of the request for proposals, receipt and evaluation of proposals, and the decision of the authority with respect to acceptance of proposals.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 12, eff. 5/13/2011.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 431,§ 1, eff. 6/4/2010.
