# § 12-3-241. Lease to authority of Jekyll Island, adjacent marshes and marsh islands, rights of way, and rights and privileges of every kind

(a) To the authority is granted, for and on the part of the State of Georgia, a lease for a term of 99 years, beginning on February 13, 1950, which term shall be automatically extended an additional 40 years upon the ending of the initial term. The lease shall be for all of that island of the State of Georgia, County of Glynn, being known as Jekyll Island and the marshes and marsh islands adjacent and adjoining the same owned by the State of Georgia; being that island of 11,000 acres, more or less, lying east of the mainland coast of Georgia, County of Glynn, bounded on its easterly shore by the Atlantic Ocean; bounded upon its northerly shore by Brunswick River, bounded on its westerly shore by Brunswick River, Jekyll Creek, Jekyll River, and Jekyll Sound; and bounded on its southerly shore by Jekyll Sound, together with the adjacent and adjoining marshes and marsh islands; which properties may also be described as all of the lands acquired by the State of Georgia in a certain condemnation proceeding, State of Georgia vs. Jekyll Island Club, Inc., et al., filed June 6, 1947, in Glynn County Superior Court; which properties may also be described in all conveyances, conveying any and all parts of Jekyll Island and the adjacent and adjoining marshes and marsh islands to the State of Georgia, recorded upon the official deed books of Glynn County as of February 13, 1950, all and each one of said conveyances being, by reference, expressly incorporated into this Code section and made in their entireties a part hereof.
(b) Also included in the lease granted by this Code section are all rights, rights of ways, water rights, immunities, easements, profits, appurtenances, and privileges thereof or relating thereto of every kind; all improvements, permanent or temporary, located thereon or dedicated to the use or service thereof; and in addition all personal property or property of any kind of the State of Georgia located thereon or dedicated to the use or service thereof.
(c) This lease shall be for and in consideration of $1.00 annually for each calendar year or fraction thereof paid in hand to and receipted for by the Office of the State Treasurer, and in consideration of the reasonable compliance of the authority with this part; provided, that the grant and conveyance made by this Code section shall include the right of the authority to dispose of that portion of the personal property conveyed by this Code section as is defined in paragraphs (2) and (3) of Code Section 12-3-235.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 367,§ 6, eff. 5/30/2007.
