# § 12-3-152. Franklin D. Roosevelt Warm Springs Memorial Advisory Committee created; composition; duties of committee; officers; quorum; reimbursement for expenses; appointment of successors; terms of members

(a) There is created the Franklin D. Roosevelt Warm Springs Memorial Advisory Committee. The members of the committee shall consist of the members of the heretofore existing Franklin D. Roosevelt Warm Springs Memorial Commission in office on May 1, 1981, each of whom shall serve for the unexpired portion of his respective office on the commission.
(b) The committee shall consult with and advise the Governor, the Board of Natural Resources, and the department concerning the execution of the functions conferred on the department by this part.
(c) The committee shall elect one of its members as chairman and another as vice-chairman and shall also elect a secretary and treasurer, who need not be members of the committee.
(d) A majority of the committee shall constitute a quorum.
(e) No member of the committee shall be entitled to compensation, but each member shall be reimbursed from state funds for actual transportation costs while traveling by public carrier, at the legal mileage rate for use of a personal automobile, and the actual cost of lodging and meals while away from his office on official state business.
(f) As the terms of office of members expire, successors shall be appointed by the Governor for terms of seven years and until their successors are appointed and qualified.
