# § 12-3-562. Creation; membership; terms; vacancies; expense allowance; perpetual existence; books and records; assignment to Department of Economic Development; staffing; cooperative agreements

(a) There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Georgia Sports Hall of Fame Authority which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation; and by that name, style, and title such body may contract and be contracted with, bring and defend actions, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of this state.
(b)
  (1) The terms of all members of the authority who are in office on April 30, 2010, shall terminate on such date. Effective July 1, 2010, the authority shall be under the governance of new members appointed as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
  (2) Members shall be appointed as follows:
    (A) Five members shall be appointed by the Governor;
    (B) Two members shall be appointed by the President of the Senate; and
    (C) Two members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
  (3) The members appointed to take office on July 1, 2010, shall serve until December 31, 2011, and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified. Successors to such members shall be appointed to serve four-year terms of office and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified. A member may be appointed to succeed himself or herself.
  (4) Any elected or appointed state, county, municipal, or school board official or employee, except officials and employees of the legislative or judicial branches of state government, may be appointed and serve as a member of the authority.
(c) Vacancies in office shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be for the unexpired term. The authority shall elect its own officers. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all rights and perform all duties of the authority.
(d) The members of the authority shall receive for each day that such members are in attendance at a meeting of the authority the same daily expense allowance and reimbursement for transportation costs as provided for members of the General Assembly, as provided for in Code Section 45-7-21; and the members of the authority may be reimbursed from funds of the authority for reasonable mileage expenses incurred in furtherance of official business of the authority. Otherwise, they shall not receive any other compensation for their services as such.
(e) The authority shall have perpetual existence. Any change in name or composition of the authority shall in no way affect the vested rights of any person under this part or impair the obligations of any contracts existing under this part.
(f) The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees. The authority shall keep suitable and proper books and records of all receipts, income, and expenditures of every kind and shall submit for inspection all the books, together with the proper statement of the authority's financial position, to the state auditor.
(g) The authority is assigned to the Department of Economic Development for administrative purposes only.
(h) The authority shall appoint, with the prior consent of the commissioner of economic development, appropriate staff as needed who shall be experienced and competent in such areas as management, fund raising, and marketing. The staff shall serve at the pleasure of the authority and shall be compensated from funds of the authority in such amount as shall be fixed by the authority.
(i) The authority may create and may enter into cooperative agreements with a nonprofit corporation to serve as a foundation to assist with the raising of funds and the generation of revenues for the purposes of the authority.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 431,§ 1, eff. 6/4/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 58,§ 14, eff. 4/26/2005.
