# § 12-3-236.1. Adoption and enforcement of ordinances and resolutions

(a) The authority shall have legislative power to adopt reasonable ordinances and resolutions relating to the property, affairs, and government of Jekyll Island, including, without limitation, ordinances and resolutions adopting by reference any or all of the provisions of Chapter 6 of Title 40 in accordance with Code Section 40-6-372, for which no provision has been made by general law and which are not inconsistent with the general laws and Constitution of Georgia. Such ordinances and resolutions shall be enforced by the authority and members of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety. Members of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety are authorized to serve and execute warrants and to make arrests for violation of such ordinances and resolutions and shall, upon and within the limits of Jekyll Island, have the same authority, powers, and privileges regarding enforcement of law as the several sheriffs of this state, which authority, powers, and privileges shall be in addition to and not in limitation of all other powers of members of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety as provided by law. Prosecutions for violations of the ordinances of the authority shall be upon citation or upon accusation as provided in Code Sections 15-10-62 and 15-10-63. The authority may provide that ordinance violations may be tried upon citations with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as upon accusations in the manner prescribed in Code Section 15-10-63.
(b) For purposes of this Code section, the Magistrate Court of Glynn County shall have jurisdiction and authority to hear and try those cases occurring within the limits of Jekyll Island in which a person is charged with violating an ordinance of the authority and to punish violations of such ordinances, all in the manner and to the extent prescribed in Article 4 of Chapter 10 of Title 15. The State Court of Glynn County shall have jurisdiction and authority to hear and try all cases removed from the Magistrate Court of Glynn County for jury trial by any defendant charged with one or more violations of the ordinances of the authority. The Superior Court of Glynn County shall have jurisdiction to review all convictions by petition for review to the superior court. The proceedings on such petitions for review shall be governed by Chapter 3 of Title 5. The jurisdiction and authority of the courts of Glynn County provided for in this Code section shall be in addition to and not in limitation of the jurisdiction and authority of such courts as may be now or hereafter provided.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-6, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
