# § 53-7-1. General powers and duties of personal representative; additional powers

(a) The duties and powers of the personal representative commence upon qualification. Such powers relate back to give acts performed by the personal representative prior to qualification that are beneficial to the estate the same effect as those acts performed after qualification. The personal representative may ratify and accept on behalf of the estate acts that are done by others that would have been proper acts for the personal representative. A personal representative is a fiduciary who, in addition to the specific duties imposed by law, is under a general duty to settle the estate as expeditiously and with as little sacrifice of value as is reasonable under all of the circumstances. The personal representative shall use the authority and powers conferred by law, by the terms of any will under which the personal representative is acting, by any order of court in proceedings to which the personal representative is a party, and by the rules generally applicable to fiduciaries to act in the best interests of all persons who are interested in the estate and with due regard for their respective rights.
(b)
  (1) As part of the petition for letters testamentary, letters of administration with the will annexed, or letters of administration or by separate petition, the beneficiaries of a testate estate or the heirs of an intestate estate may, by unanimous consent, authorize but not require the probate court to grant to the personal representative any of the powers contained in Code Section 53-12-261; provided, however, that the grant by the probate court of the powers provided by paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 53-12-261 shall not authorize the personal representative to bind the estate by any warranty in any conveyance or contract in violation of subsection (a) of Code Section 53-8-14.
  (2) With respect to any beneficiary of a testate estate or heir of an intestate estate who is not sui juris, the consent required by paragraph (1) of this subsection may be given by such beneficiary's or heir's duly acting conservator or guardian. The personal representative of a deceased beneficiary or heir shall be authorized to consent on behalf of such deceased beneficiary or heir.
  (3) The grant of powers provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be ordered only after publication of a citation in the official newspaper of the county in which the petition is made and only after the time for filing objections has elapsed either without any objection being timely filed, or if any such objection is timely filed, upon each such objection being dismissed or withdrawn. The citation shall be sufficient if it states generally that the petition requests that powers contained in Code Section 53-12-261 be granted.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 508,§ 1-36, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2010.
