# § 33-2-16. Powers of Commissioner as to evidence and witnesses; payment of witness fees and expenses; subpoenas; giving of false testimony

(a) With respect to the subject of any examination, investigation, or hearing conducted by him or his duly authorized representative, the Commissioner may take depositions, subpoena witnesses, administer oaths or affirmations, examine any individual under oath, and compel the production of records, books, papers, and other documents.
(b) Witness fees and mileage, if claimed, shall be allowed as for witnesses appearing in superior court. Witness fees, mileage, and the actual expense necessarily incurred in securing attendance of witnesses and their testimony shall be itemized and shall be paid by the person being examined or investigated, if in the proceedings in which the witness is called such person is found to be in violation of the law, or paid by the person, if other than the Commissioner, at whose request the hearing is held.
(c) Subpoenas of witnesses shall be served in the same manner as if issued by a superior court. If any individual fails to obey a subpoena issued and served under this subsection with respect to any matter concerning which he may be lawfully interrogated, on application of the Commissioner the superior court of the county in which the proceeding is pending at which such individual was so required to appear may issue an order requiring such individual to comply with the subpoena and to testify.
(d) Any person willfully testifying falsely under oath as to any matter material to any such examination, investigation, or hearing shall have committed the offense of false swearing.
(e) In addition to any other liability or punishment prescribed, any person who without just cause fails or refuses to attend and testify or to answer any lawful inquiry or to produce any books, papers, or records in obedience to a lawful subpoena issued by the Commissioner or by his authority shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
