# § 33-2-24. Enforcement of title and rules, regulations, and orders; issuance of orders without hearings; civil actions; criminal violations; penalties

(a) Whenever it may appear to the Commissioner, either upon investigation or otherwise, that any person has engaged in, is engaging in, or is about to engage in any act, practice, or transaction which is prohibited by this title or by any rule, regulation, or order of the Commissioner promulgated or issued pursuant to this title or which is declared to be unlawful under this title, the Commissioner may at his discretion issue an order, if he deems it to be appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of policyholders or the citizens of this state, prohibiting such person from continuing such act, practice, or transaction.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, in situations where persons otherwise would be entitled to a hearing prior to an order, the Commissioner may issue a proposed order to be effective upon a later date without hearing, unless persons subject to the order request a hearing within ten days after receipt of the order. Failure to make the request shall constitute a waiver of any provision of law for the hearing. The order shall contain or shall be accompanied by a notice of opportunity for hearing which clearly explains that the opportunity must be requested within ten days of receipt of the order and notice. The order and notice shall be served in person by the Commissioner or his agent or by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, in situations where persons otherwise would be entitled to a hearing prior to an order, the Commissioner may issue an order to be effective immediately, if the Commissioner has reasonable cause to believe: that an act, practice, or transaction is occurring or is about to occur; that the situation constitutes a situation of imminent peril to the public health, safety, or welfare; and that the situation therefore imperatively requires emergency action. The emergency order shall contain findings to this effect and reasons for the determination. The order shall contain or be accompanied by a notice of opportunity for hearing which may provide that a hearing will be held if and only if a person subject to the order requests a hearing within ten days of receipt of the order and notice. The order and notice shall be served by delivery by the Commissioner or his agent or by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested.
(d) The Commissioner may institute actions or other legal proceedings as may be required for the enforcement of any provisions of this title. If the Commissioner has reason to believe that any person has violated any provision of this title for which criminal prosecution is provided, he shall so inform the prosecuting attorney in whose circuit or jurisdiction such violation may have occurred.
(e) The Commissioner may prosecute an action in any superior court of proper venue to enforce any order made by him pursuant to this title.
(f) In cases in which the Commissioner institutes an action or other legal proceeding in a superior court of this state or prosecutes an action in a superior court to enforce his order, the superior court may among other appropriate relief issue an injunction restraining persons and those in active concert with them, including agents, employees, partners, officers, and directors, from engaging in acts prohibited by orders of the Commissioner or his rules or regulations or made unlawful or prohibited by this title.
(g) In addition to all other penalties provided for under this title, the Commissioner shall have the authority:
  (1) To place any person duly licensed under this title on probation for a period of time not to exceed one year for each and every act in violation of this title or of the rules, regulations, or orders of the Commissioner; and
  (2) To subject any person duly licensed or that should be licensed under this title to a monetary penalty of up to $2,000.00 for each and every act in violation of this title or of the rules, regulations, or orders of the Commissioner, unless such person knew or reasonably should have known he or she was in violation of this title or of the rules, regulations, or orders of the Commissioner, in which case the monetary penalty provided for in this paragraph may be increased to an amount up to $5,000.00 for each and every act in violation.
(h) The Commissioner may not institute any action or impose any penalty against an insurer because an insurer engages in transactions consistent with the provisions of Chapter 12 of Title 10, the "Uniform Electronic Transactions Act," or Code Section 33-24-14.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 659,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 643,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-63, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 108,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
