# § 33-2-21. Presiding officer at hearing; rights of parties; intervention; pleading and evidence; record of proceedings; rehearing or reargument

(a) The hearing shall be presided over by the Commissioner or his designated representative.
(b) The Commissioner shall allow any party to the hearing to appear in person or by counsel, to be present during the giving of all evidence, to have a reasonable opportunity to inspect all documentary evidence and to examine witnesses, to present evidence in support of his interest, and to have subpoenas issued by the Commissioner to compel attendance of witnesses and production of evidence in his behalf.
(c) The Commissioner shall permit to become a party to the hearing by intervention, if timely, only such persons who may be aggrieved by the Commissioner's order made upon the hearing.
(d) Formal rules of pleading or evidence need not be observed at any hearing.
(e) Upon written request seasonably made by a party to the hearing and at such person's expense, the Commissioner shall cause a full record of the proceedings to be made. If transcribed, a copy of such record shall be furnished to the Commissioner without cost to the Commissioner or the state and shall be a part of the Commissioner's record of the hearing. If so transcribed, a copy of the record shall be furnished to any other party to the hearing at the request and expense of the other party. If no record is made or transcribed, the Commissioner shall prepare an adequate record of the evidence and of the proceedings.
(f) Upon written request of a party to a hearing filed with the Commissioner within 30 days after any order made pursuant to a hearing has been mailed or delivered to the persons entitled to receive the same, the Commissioner may in his discretion grant a rehearing or reargument of the matters involved in such hearing; and notice of the rehearing or reargument shall be given as provided in Code Section 33-2-19.
