# § 33-2-28. Scope of judicial review; disposition of action by reviewing court

(a) Unless review of the action complained of is required by law to be de novo:
  (1) In cases in which proceedings have been held before the Commissioner, the Commissioner shall file with his reply to the reviewing court a certified transcript of all such proceedings and all evidence before him in such proceedings; provided, however, that the parties may by written stipulation agree to an abbreviated record including so much of the transcript as shall be necessary to determine the questions under review;
  (2) The reviewing court's decision shall be upon the basis of the pleadings and the record so presented;
  (3) The findings of the Commissioner as to any fact, if supported by substantial evidence upon consideration of the record as a whole, shall be conclusive;
  (4) If issues of fact outside the record shall be made by the pleadings, they may be determined by the court.
(b) Judicial review of any fact determined by the Commissioner shall be de novo unless:
  (1) The determination was made after a hearing required or authorized by this title; or
  (2) The determination is one committed by law to the Commissioner's discretion.
(c) So far as necessary to decision and where presented, the reviewing court shall decide all relevant questions of law, interpret constitutional and statutory provisions, and determine the meaning or applicability of the terms of any department action. The court shall:
  (1) Compel department action unlawfully withheld or unreasonably delayed; and
  (2) Hold unlawful and set aside department action, findings, and conclusions found to be:
    (A) Arbitrary, capricious, an abuse of discretion, or otherwise not in accordance with law;
    (B) Contrary to legal or constitutional right, power, privilege, or immunity;
    (C) In excess of statutory jurisdiction, authority, or limitations or short of statutory right;
    (D) Without observance of procedure required by law;
    (E) Unsupported by substantial evidence upon consideration of the record as a whole in cases determined pursuant to paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section; and
    (F) Unwarranted by the facts in cases in which the facts are subject to trial de novo by the reviewing court.
(d) In making the determinations called for in subparagraphs (A) through (F) of paragraph (2) of subsection (c) of this Code section, the court shall review the whole record or such portions of the record as may be cited by any party; and due account shall be taken of the rule of prejudicial error.
(e) The reviewing court may also grant such further relief either legal or equitable, or both, as the interest of the public and the aggrieved parties in such proceedings shall require.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 33, eff. 5/2/2022.
