# § 33-2-14. Preparation of written reports of examinations generally; certification of reports; admissibility in evidence; notice and hearing on reports; use of examination documents

(a) The Commissioner may make a full written report of each examination made by him containing only facts ascertained from the accounts, records, and documents examined and from the sworn testimony of witnesses.
(b) The report shall be certified by the Commissioner or by the examiner in charge of the examination and when so certified, after filing as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, shall be admissible in evidence in any proceeding brought by the Commissioner against the person examined or any officer or agent of such person and shall be prima-facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
(c) The Commissioner shall furnish a copy of the proposed report to the person examined not less than 20 days prior to filing the report. If such person so requests in writing within such 20 day period or such longer period as the Commissioner may grant, the Commissioner shall grant a hearing with respect to the report and shall not so file the report until after the hearing and such modifications have been made therein as the Commissioner may deem proper.
(d) The Commissioner may withhold from public inspection the report of any examination or investigation for so long as he deems it to be in the public interest or necessary to protect the person examined from unwarranted injury.
(e) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to limit the Commissioner's authority to terminate or suspend any examination in order to pursue other legal or regulatory action pursuant to the insurance laws of this state. In such event, the findings of fact and conclusions made pursuant to said examination and prior to any hearing as set forth in subsection (c) of this Code section shall be prima-facie evidence in any legal or regulatory action.
(f) In the event the Commissioner determines that regulatory action is appropriate as a result of any examination, he or she may initiate any proceeding or actions as provided by law.
(g) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, relating to the inspection of public records, all work papers, analysis, information, documents, information received from another state, and any other materials created, produced, or obtained by or disclosed to the Commissioner or any other person in the course of an examination made under this chapter or in the course of analysis by the Commissioner of the financial condition or market conduct of a company must be given confidential treatment and are not subject to subpoena and may not be made public by the Commissioner or any other person. Access may be granted to authorized representatives of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners. Such representatives must agree in writing prior to receiving the information to treat such information confidentially as required by this Code section, unless the prior written consent of the company to which it pertains has been obtained.
(h) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to limit the Commissioner's authority to use any preliminary or final examination or company work papers or other documents, or any other information discovered or developed during the course of any examination in the furtherance of any legal or regulatory action which the Commissioner may, in his or her sole discretion, deem appropriate.
(i) Nothing contained in this Code section shall prevent or be construed as prohibiting the Commissioner from disclosing the work papers, analysis, information, or a document described in subsection (g) of this Code section to state, federal, or international regulatory agencies or state, federal, or international law enforcement authorities so long as such recipient agrees in writing to treat such report confidentially and in a manner consistent with this title.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 746,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 769,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
