# § 33-2-27. Pleading and procedure of judicial review; powers of reviewing court generally

(a) The form of proceeding for judicial review shall be by a petition for review in the Superior Court of Fulton County, a copy of which shall be served upon the Commissioner immediately. The proceedings on the petition for review shall be governed by the provisions of Chapter 3 of Title 5, except to the extent any such provision is in conflict with any provision of this title.
(b) The proceedings shall follow the course which is now or may hereafter be prescribed for civil actions in the superior courts, provided that the reviewing court may by order extend the time required for filing any pleadings or motions. In addition, the reviewing court may provide by order for expeditious hearing or trial of any such proceedings as justice or the public interest may require.
(c) The petition for review or other pleading in which judicial review shall be sought shall plainly specify the action complained of and shall set forth the relief sought and, without excessive detail, the facts and circumstances supporting the petitioner's right to such relief.
(d) Pending judicial review pursuant to any proceeding authorized for the purpose, the Commissioner, if the action has not become effective, may postpone the effective date of the action complained of. Upon such conditions as may be required and to the extent necessary to preserve the status of proceedings or the rights of the parties or to prevent irreparable injury, in any proceeding for judicial review the reviewing court or any appellate court is authorized to issue all necessary and appropriate orders to postpone the effective date of any action or temporarily to grant or extend relief denied or withheld.
(e) Whether or not prayed for, the court may remand the matter for further proceedings or findings on terms specified by order or may require the parties to complete any record found to be inaccurate or inadequate for decision.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-21, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
