# § 33-2-15. Payment of expenses of examinations; immunity of examiners

(a) At the direction of the Commissioner, the insurer or other person so examined shall pay all the actual travel and living expenses of the examination. When the examination is made by an examiner who is not a regular employee of the department, the person examined shall pay the proper charges for the services of the examiner and his or her assistants and the actual travel and living expenses incurred by such examiners and assistants in an amount approved by the Commissioner. A consolidated account for the examination shall be filed by the examiner with the Commissioner. No person shall pay and no examiner shall accept any additional emolument on account of any examination. When the examination is conducted in whole or in part by regular salaried employees of the department, payment for such services and proper expenses shall be made by the person examined to the Commissioner, and such payment shall be deposited in the state treasury; provided, however, that, when an agent, broker, solicitor, counselor, or adjuster is examined because of a complaint filed against such agent, broker, solicitor, counselor, or adjuster and when the Commissioner finds that the complaint was not justified, the expenses of the examination shall not be assessed against the agent, broker, solicitor, counselor, or adjuster but shall be borne by the department.
(b) An examiner or other person appointed or authorized by the Commissioner, while participating in an examination conducted under this chapter, shall enjoy the same immunities as those of a regular employee of the department under similar circumstances.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 769,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2008.
