# § 33-2-9. Rules and regulations

(a) The Commissioner shall have full power and authority to make rules and regulations for the following purposes:
  (1) To organize the department and to assign duties to members of the staff;
  (2) To promulgate any rules and regulations as are reasonably necessary to implement this title;
  (3) To promulgate any rules and regulations as are reasonably necessary to conform with the requirements of the federal Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, P.L. 104-191, as said federal Act existed on January 1, 1997;
  (4) To issue interpretative rulings or to prescribe forms required to carry out the responsibilities of his or her office; or
  (5) To govern the procedure to be followed in the proceedings before the department.
(b) Before any rule or regulation shall become effective or before any amendment or repeal of any rule shall become effective, the proposed rule or regulation or amendment or repeal shall have been on file as a public record in the office of the Commissioner for at least ten days.
(c) Prior to the adoption of any rule or regulation or the amendment or repeal thereof, the Commissioner shall publish or otherwise circulate notice of his intended action and afford interested persons opportunity to submit data or views either orally or in writing.
(d) The Commissioner shall compile and keep on file in his office as a public record a set of such rules and regulations which are in effect and shall prepare copies of such rules and regulations which shall be available upon request. The Commissioner shall fix a price covering such compilation which shall cover costs of preparation and mailing.
(e) Neither the Commissioner, whether acting as Commissioner of Insurance or Safety Fire Commissioner, nor the department, nor the Safety Fire Division of the office of the Commissioner shall propose or adopt rules or regulations relating to the sale or dispensing of gasoline or diesel fuel to the general public by any business entity unless such rules or regulations require such sale or dispensing to be under the direct control and visual supervision of an on-site employee of such business entity.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 147,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
