# § 33-2-11. Examination of insurers and organizations; effect of insurer's change of domicile from Georgia

(a) Whenever the Commissioner shall deem it expedient, the Commissioner shall examine, either in person or by some examiner duly authorized by the Commissioner, the affairs, transactions, accounts, records, documents, and assets of each insurer authorized to do business in this state and any other facts relative to its business methods, management, and dealings with policyholders. At least once every five years, the Commissioner shall so examine each domestic insurer. Examination of an alien insurer shall be limited to its insurance transactions in the United States.
(b) Whenever he shall deem it necessary at least once in five years, the Commissioner shall fully examine each rating organization which is licensed in this state. As often as he shall deem it necessary, he may examine each advisory organization and each joint underwriting or joint reinsurance group, association, or organization.
(c) The Commissioner shall in like manner examine each insurer or rating organization applying for authority to do business in this state.
(d) In lieu of an examination under this Code section of any foreign or alien insurer licensed in this state, the Commissioner may accept an examination report on such insurer as prepared by the insurance department of such insurer's state of domicile or port-of-entry state until January 1, 1994. On and after January 1, 1994, such reports may be accepted only if:
  (1) The insurance department was, at the time the examination was conducted, accredited under the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' financial regulation standards and accreditation program; or
  (2) The examination was performed under the supervision of an accredited insurance department or with the participation of one or more examiners who are employed by an accredited state insurance department and who, after a review of the examination work papers and report, state under oath that the examination was performed in a manner consistent with the standards and procedures required by their insurance department.
(e) Any insurer authorized to transact insurance in this state which changes its domicile from Georgia to another state on or after April 1, 1988, may be examined by the Commissioner once a year for five years, beginning on or after the occurrence of the change in domicile; provided, however, this subsection shall not apply to an insurer which changes its domicile from Georgia to another state as long as it retains in this state its principal place of business and the complete records of its assets, transactions, and affairs.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 769,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
