# § 44-13-16. Sale of exempted property for reinvestment; procedure; effect

(a) Whenever the debtor shall desire the exempted property, whether real or personal, to be sold for reinvestment, an application for the sale of the property must be made to the judge of the superior court of the county where the debtor resides or the property is situated unless the judge is disqualified, in which case application may be made to the judge of the superior court of an adjoining circuit. Upon proper showing, the judge may order a sale of the property; and the proceeds shall be reinvested upon the same uses.
(b) A sale ordered pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall operate to pass to the purchaser the entire interest and title of the beneficiaries in the exempted property and also the entire interest and title owned, before the exemption was made, by the party out of whose estate the property was so exempted.
(c) The purchaser shall receive the property sold and shall hold the same, as to all liens thereon against the original debtor and with the same exemption therefrom, for the same length of time as was allowed to the original debtor before the sale; and, by consent of all lien creditors, the liens of such creditors may be divested and transferred to the newly acquired property by the order of the court pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section.
(d) An applicant who has obtained an exemption for the spouse, minor children, or dependents of the debtor may apply for an order of sale under subsections (a) through (c) of this Code section. All persons interested shall be parties to the proceeding.
(e) The judge of the superior court shall order the entire proceedings recorded in the minutes by the clerk of the superior court of the county in which the parties applying for the order of sale reside and, when land is to be sold, in the county where the land is located; and the judge shall provide the means and mode of sale and reinvestment as provided in this Code section.
(f) This Code section shall apply to the sale of any real or personal property set apart under this article.
