# § 31-7-77. Prohibition on for-profit projects; rates and charges; utilization of revenues to pay certain obligations

(a) No authority shall operate or construct any project for profit. It shall fix rates and charges consistent with this declaration of policy and such as will produce revenues only in amounts sufficient, together with all other funds of the authority, to pay principal and interest on certificates and obligations of the authority, to provide for maintenance and operation of the project, and to create and maintain a reserve sufficient to meet principal and interest payments due on any certificates in any one year after the issuance thereof. The authority may provide reasonable reserves for the improvement, replacement, or expansion of its facilities or services.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section or any other provisions to the contrary, a joint hospital authority established pursuant to Code Section 31-7-72 which operates or leases a hospital containing more than 900 licensed beds shall only utilize revenues to pay principal and interest on certificates and obligations of the authority, to pay pension plan obligations of the authority existing as of January 1, 2021, and for funding projects leased by the authority to a lessee pursuant to a contract entered into in accordance with paragraph (7) of Code Section 31-7-75; provided, however, that no more than 1 percent of revenues shall be utilized to pay for personnel costs for employees or contractors of the authority and no revenues shall be used to perform any power or duty delegated in a lease.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 274,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 325,§ 1, eff. 5/7/2013.
