# § 31-7-432. Limitations or restrictions

(a) A hospital or long-term care facility may establish visitation policies that limit or restrict visitation of any visitor when:
  (1) The presence of visitors would be medically or therapeutically contraindicated in the best clinical judgment of healthcare professionals;
  (2) The presence of visitors would interfere with the care of or rights of any patient or resident;
  (3) Visitors are engaging in disruptive, threatening, or violent behavior toward any staff member, patient or resident, other visitor, or other individual authorized to be on the property of the hospital or long-term care facility;
  (4) Visitors are noncompliant with hospital or long-term care facility policy; or
  (5) The patient or resident is under the custody of a law enforcement agency or a correctional institution.
(b) A hospital or long-term care facility may require visitors to wear personal protective equipment, provided that any such required equipment shall be provided by the hospital or long-term care facility. A hospital or long-term care facility may require visitors to comply with reasonable safety protocols and rules of conduct. The hospital or long-term care facility may revoke visitation rights for failure to comply with this subsection or any policies established pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require a hospital or long-term care facility to allow a visitor to enter an operating room, isolation room, isolation unit, behavioral health setting, or other typically restricted area or to remain present during the administration of emergency care in critical situations. Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require a hospital or long-term care facility to allow a visitor access beyond the rooms, units, or wards in which the patient or resident such visitor is visiting is receiving care or beyond general common areas in the hospital or long-term care facility.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 573,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
