# § 31-7-283. Compilation and dissemination of information; rules and regulations

(a) The department shall compile, direct the compilation of, and disseminate comparative information provided in the annual reports under Code Section 31-7-280 on a health care provider specific basis.
(b) Any data collected by the department may be included in department reports pursuant to this article as deemed appropriate to offer full information to the public. Prior to any release or dissemination of the data, the department shall permit the reporting entity a 30 day opportunity to verify the accuracy of any information pertaining to its data. The reporting entity may submit to the department any corrections of errors in the compilations of the data with any supporting evidence and comments. The department shall correct for the report such data which, in its judgment, are found to be in error. Any information, evidence, or comments submitted to the department in writing by the reporting entity shall be included as a part of the department's release or dissemination.
(c) If the data required by the department are available from the reporting entity by acceptably formatted, computer readable means, such method for reporting shall be preferred.
(d) The reporting of any data required by this article by specified types of health care providers shall include health care providers operated by state, county, municipality, public or private entities, or any combination thereof.
(e) The department shall be authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to effectuate and carry out its authority and duties under this article.
