# § 31-7-15. Review of professional practices by a peer review committee

(a) A hospital or ambulatory surgical center shall provide for the review of professional practices in the hospital or ambulatory surgical center for the purpose of reducing morbidity and mortality and for the improvement of the care of patients in the hospital or ambulatory surgical center. This review shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
  (1) The quality of the care provided to patients as rendered in the hospital or ambulatory surgical center;
  (2) The review of medical treatment and diagnostic and surgical procedures in order to foster safe and adequate treatment of patients in the hospital or ambulatory surgical center; and
  (3) The evaluation of medical and health care services or the qualifications and professional competence of persons performing or seeking to perform such services.
(b) The functions required by subsection (a) of this Code section may be performed by a "peer review committee," defined as a committee of physicians appointed by a state or local or specialty medical society or appointed by the governing board or medical staff of a licensed hospital or ambulatory surgical center or any other organization formed pursuant to state or federal law and engaged by the hospital or ambulatory surgical center for the purpose of performing such functions required by subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Compliance with the above provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section shall constitute a requirement for granting or renewing the permit of a hospital or ambulatory surgical center. The functions required by this Code section shall be carried out under the regulations and supervision of the department.
(d) Proceedings and records conducted or generated in an attempt to comply with the duties imposed by subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be subject to the provisions of either Chapter 14 or Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50.
(e) Nothing in this or any other Code section shall be deemed to require any hospital or ambulatory surgical center to grant medical staff membership or privileges to any licensed practitioner of the healing arts.
