# § 31-7-12.8. Certification as nurse aide; employer sponsored training and competency examination programs; provisional practice by military medical personnel

(a) The department shall certify an applicant for certification as a certified nurse aide who meets the following qualifications:
  (1) Has relevant professional or educational experience as determined by the department; and
  (2) Has achieved a minimum score, as established by rule of the department, on a certified nurse aide competency examination consisting of a written portion and a skills-demonstration portion, as approved by the department.
(b) The department shall approve employer based programs sponsored by or offered in assisted living communities, private home care providers, personal care homes, or other long-term care facilities licensed by the department for certified nurse aide training and competency examination programs as determined by the department.
(c) The department, in collaboration with the Department of Veterans Service, shall establish a program through which military medical personnel may provisionally operate within their scope of practice and training for a period of 12 months without meeting the examination requirements provided for in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section. During such 12 month period, such individual may apply for certification at the appropriate level.
(d) For purposes of this Code section, the term "military medical personnel" means an individual who has, within 12 months of seeking certification pursuant to this Code section, served as a medic in the United States Army, medical technician in the United States Air Force, or corpsman in the United States Navy or Coast Guard and who was discharged or released from such service under conditions other than dishonorable.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 486,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 69,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 218,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2021.
