# § 31-7-12.7. Employment of certified medication aides in nursing homes; competency review; authorized task; review by pharmacists; ongoing medication training; administration of narcotics prohibited

(a) A nursing home may employ certified medication aides for the purpose of performing the technical aspects of the administration of certain medications in accordance with this Code section.
(b) A nursing home shall not employ an individual as a certified medication aide unless such individual is listed in the medication aide registry established and maintained by the department pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsection (g) of Code Section 31-7-12.2, is in good standing with the department, and has met all of the qualifications in paragraph (3) of subsection (g) of Code Section 31-7-12.2.
(c) A nursing home shall annually conduct a comprehensive clinical skills competency review of each certified medication aide employed by such nursing home.
(d) A certified medication aide who meets the criteria established in this Code section shall be permitted to perform the following tasks in a nursing home in accordance with the written instructions of a physician:
  (1) Administer physician ordered oral, ophthalmic, topical, otic, nasal, vaginal, and rectal medications;
  (2) Administer insulin, epinephrine, and B12 pursuant to physician direction and protocol;
  (3) Administer medications via a metered dose inhaler;
  (4) Conduct finger stick blood glucose testing following established protocol;
  (5) Administer a commercially prepared disposable enema as ordered by a physician; and
  (6) Assist residents in the supervision of self-administration of medications.
(e) A certified medication aide shall record in the medication administration record all medications that such certified medication aide has personally administered to a resident of a nursing home and any refusal of a resident to take a medication. A certified medication aide shall observe a resident to whom a medication has been administered and shall report any changes in the condition of such resident to a charge nurse.
(f) All medications administered by a certified medication aide in accordance with this Code section shall be in unit or multidose packaging.
(g) A nursing home that employs one or more certified medication aides to administer medications in accordance with this Code section shall secure the services of a licensed pharmacist to perform the following duties as part of the nursing home's peer review, medical review, and quality assurance functions:
  (1) Perform a quarterly review of the drug regimen of each resident of the nursing home and report any irregularities to the nursing home administrator;
  (2) Remove for proper disposal any drugs that are expired, discontinued, in a deteriorated condition, or when the resident for whom such drugs were ordered is no longer a resident;
  (3) Establish or review policies and procedures for safe and effective drug therapy, distribution, use, and control; and
  (4) Monitor compliance with established policies and procedures for medication handling and storage.
(h) A nursing home that employs one or more certified medication aides to administer medications in accordance with this Code section shall ensure that each certified medication aide receives ongoing medication training as prescribed by the department. A registered professional nurse or pharmacist shall conduct quarterly unannounced medication administration observations and report any issues to the nursing home administrator.
(i) Nothing in this Code section shall authorize certified medication aides employed by a nursing home to administer any Schedule II controlled substance that is a narcotic.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 218,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2021.
