# § 31-7-51. Definitions

(a) As used in this article, the term:
  (1) "Auxiliary medical facilities" means diagnostic and treatment facilities, nursing homes, chronic illness hospitals, and rehabilitation centers.
  (2) "Construction project" means a program for the construction of any medical facility or auxiliary medical facility or mental health center, as evidenced by the approval of a project under Title VI or Title VII of the federal Public Health Service Act, as now or hereafter amended.
  (3) "Hospital authority" means any hospital authority created under the "Hospital Authorities Law," Article 4 of this chapter, as now or hereafter amended.
  (4) "Medical facilities" means general hospitals, psychiatric hospitals, nurse training facilities, tuberculosis hospitals, and public health centers.
  (5) "Mental health center" means a facility providing services for the prevention or diagnosis of mental illness, or care and treatment of mentally ill patients, or rehabilitation of such persons, which services are provided principally for persons residing in a particular community or communities in or near which the facility is situated.
  (6) Reserved.
  (7) "Modernization project" means the alteration, major repair, remodeling, replacement, and renovation of existing buildings (including original equipment thereof) and replacement of obsolete, built-in equipment of existing buildings, as evidenced by the approval of a project under Title VI or Title VII of the federal Public Health Service Act, as now or hereafter amended.
  (8) "Publicly operated" means operated by a county, municipality, hospital authority, or any combination thereof.
  (9) "Publicly owned" means that a county, municipality, hospital authority, or any combination thereof holds title to or has a long-term lease acceptable to the state agency on the property on which the construction or modernization is proposed.
  (10) "State agency" means the State Health Planning and Development Agency or any successor designated as the agency of state government to administer the state construction and modernization plan and receive funds pursuant to Titles VI and VII of the federal Public Health Service Act, as amended.
(b) The terms "hospital," "psychiatric hospital," "nurse training facilities," "public health center," "rehabilitation facility," "nursing home," "chronic illness hospital," "long-term care facility," "mental health center," "construction," "cost of construction," "modernization," and "cost of modernization" shall have meanings consistent with those respectively ascribed to them in Titles VI and VII of the federal Public Health Service Act, as now or hereafter amended.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 70,§ 4-3, eff. 7/1/2015.
