# § 31-7-95. Funding of medical education provided by hospital authorities and designated teaching hospitals

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Designated teaching hospital" means a teaching hospital operated by other than a hospital authority, which hospital agrees to contract with the state to offer or continue to offer a residency program approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), which program has at least one ACGME accredited residency program, excluding any stand-alone fellowship program, and which hospital operates a 24 hour, seven-day-per-week emergency room open to the public and which hospital files a semiannual statistical report consistent with those filed by other state funded tertiary, neonatal, obstetrical centers with the Department of Community Health.
  (2) "Hospital authority" means a hospital authority operating a teaching hospital which offers a residency program approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education.
  (3) "Resident" means a physician receiving medical education and training through a teaching hospital operated by a hospital authority or designated teaching hospital.
(b) The General Assembly finds that the major hospital authorities and designated teaching hospitals in this state provide a valuable service benefiting the entire state by operating teaching hospitals which provide necessary medical education and training for physicians; this service is provided through residency programs offered by these teaching hospitals. By the provision of residency programs operated by state teaching hospitals, the state has recognized its responsibility to fund the cost of training physicians; and it is the purpose of this Code section to recognize that the state has a similar responsibility when the medical education and training are provided by teaching hospitals operated by hospital authorities or by designated teaching hospitals.
(c) For each resident receiving medical education and training through a teaching hospital operated by a hospital authority or designated teaching hospital, the Department of Community Health shall pay no more than $10,000.00 per annum to the hospital authority or designated teaching hospital. Such payments shall be made based upon certifications by the hospital authorities or designated teaching hospitals to the Department of Community Health. The Department of Community Health is authorized to designate the Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce to promulgate rules and regulations specifying procedures for making the certifications provided for in this Code section and to establish a procedure for making payments to hospital authorities and designated teaching hospitals as provided in this Code section.
(d) The funds necessary to carry out this Code section shall derive from funds appropriated for such purpose to the Department of Community Health. In the event the funds appropriated by the General Assembly are insufficient to fund the full amount payable to hospital authorities or designated teaching hospitals under subsection (c) of this Code section, the amount otherwise payable thereunder shall be reduced pro rata in accordance with the funds actually appropriated for such purpose. The Department of Community Health shall have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this Code section. No additional teaching hospitals will be added until such funds have been made available for any additional teaching hospitals.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to amend, modify, supersede, or repeal Chapter 10 of Title 49.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 831,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 50,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-29, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws V3, § 5, eff. 7/1/2003.
