# § 31-7-133. Confidentiality of review organization's records

(a) Except in proceedings alleging violation of this article, the proceedings and records of a review organization shall be held in confidence and shall not be subject to discovery or introduction into evidence in any civil action; and no person who was in attendance at a meeting of such organization shall be permitted or required to testify in any such civil action as to any evidence or other matters produced or presented during the proceedings or activities of such organization or as to any findings, recommendations, evaluations, opinions, or other actions of such organization or any members thereof. The confidentiality provisions of this article shall also apply to any proceedings, records, actions, activities, evidence, findings, recommendations, evaluations, opinions, data, or other information shared between review organizations which are performing a peer review function or disclosed to a governmental agency as required by law. However, information, documents, or records otherwise available from original sources are not to be construed as immune from discovery or use in any such civil action merely because they were presented during proceedings of such organization, nor should any person who testifies before such organization or who is a member of such organization be prevented from testifying as to matters within such person's knowledge; but such witness cannot be asked about such witness's testimony before such organization or about opinions formed by such witness as a result of the organization hearings. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Department of Community Health may inspect and copy peer review materials maintained by certain providers when it is determined by the department to be necessary in the performance of the department's licensure and certification responsibilities under Code Section 31-7-15; provided, however, such inspection and copying shall not waive or abrogate the confidentiality of such peer review materials as set forth in this Code section and in Code Section 31-7-15.
(b) This Code section shall not apply to prevent:
  (1) The disclosure under Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 of those documents in the department's custody which are records, reports, or recommendations of a nationally recognized health care accreditation body and which are provided by an institution to the department for licensure purposes under subsection (b) of Code Section 31-7-3;
  (2) The use of peer review documents in any proceeding involving the permitting or licensing of an institution pursuant to this chapter to the extent necessary to challenge the effectiveness of the institution's peer review system; provided, however, such use shall not waive or abrogate the confidentiality of such documents as set forth in this Code section and in Code Section 31-7-15; or
  (3) A health care provider from obtaining the specific reasons and the records and proceedings related to such provider's exclusion or termination as a participating provider in a health maintenance organization, provider network, or other organization which engages in managed care if such provider has brought a civil action against such health maintenance organization, provider network, or other organization for wrongful exclusion or termination.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 611,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 31, § 3, eff. 4/11/2001.
