# § 31-7-19. Nursing homes to annually offer influenza vaccinations to health care workers and other employees; immunity from liability

(a) Each nursing home shall annually offer on site to its health care workers and other employees who have direct contact with patients, at no cost, vaccinations for the influenza virus in accordance with the recommendations of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, subject to availability of the vaccine. Each nursing home shall keep on record a signed statement from each such health care worker and employee stating that he or she has been offered vaccination against the influenza virus and has either accepted or declined such vaccination. A nursing home may offer to its health care workers and other employees who have direct contact with patients any other vaccination required or recommended by, and in accordance with the recommendations of, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, which may be offered or administered pursuant to standing orders approved by the nursing home's medical staff to ensure the safety of employees, patients, visitors, and contractors.
(b) A nursing home or health care provider acting in good faith and in accordance with generally accepted health care standards applicable to such nursing home or health care provider shall not be subject to administrative, civil, or criminal liability or to discipline for unprofessional conduct for complying with the requirements of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 255,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
