# § 31-7-402. Content and form of notice to Attorney General; retention of experts; payment of costs and expenses

(a) Notice to the Attorney General required by this article shall include the name of the seller or lessor; the name of the acquiring entity and other parties to the acquisition; the county in which the main campus of the hospital is located; the terms of the proposed agreement and any related agreements including leases, management contracts, and service contracts; the acquisition price; a copy of the acquisition agreement and any related agreements including leases, management contracts, and service contracts; any valuations of the hospital's assets prepared in the three years immediately preceding the proposed transaction date; a financial and economic analysis and report from any expert or consultant retained by the seller or lessor which addresses each of the criteria set forth in Code Section 31-7-406; articles of incorporation and bylaws of the nonprofit corporation and related entities and foundations; all donative documents reflecting the purposes of prior gifts of more than $100,000.00 in value by donors to the nonprofit corporation or any related entities or foundations for or on behalf of the hospital; and all documents pertaining to the disposition of assets, including those documents which are included as schedules or exhibits to the acquisition agreement and any related agreements.
(b) The Attorney General may prescribe a form of notice to be utilized by the seller or lessor and the acquiring entity and may require information in addition to that specified in this article if the disclosure of such information is determined by the Attorney General to be in the public interest. The notice to the Attorney General required by this article and all documents related thereto shall be considered public records pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50.
(c) The Attorney General shall be authorized to retain financial, economic, health planning, or other experts or consultants to assist in addressing each of the criteria set forth in Code Section 31-7-406. Within 30 days after notice from the Attorney General, the actual and reasonable cost and expense incurred in connection with the retention of such experts or consultants shall be paid directly to such experts and consultants by the parties to the proposed transaction in such proportionate amounts as the parties may agree or otherwise as determined by the Attorney General.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 605,§ 6, eff. 4/17/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 142,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
