# § 31-7-359. Liability for civil damages; sovereign immunity not waived

(a) No person, including the department, a facility, or an individual acting on behalf of such entities, shall be liable for civil damages or be subject to any claim, demand, cause of action, or proceeding of any nature as a result of actions taken in good faith to comply with this article, including the disqualification of an applicant from employment on the basis of a disqualifying crime.
(b)
  (1) A facility that has obtained a satisfactory determination on an owner, applicant, or employee in accordance with this article, or confirmation that such owner, applicant, or employee has obtained a favorable final appeal decision under Code Section 31-7-358, shall be immune from liability for claims of negligent hiring when such claims are based upon the criminal record of such owner, applicant, or employee, even when the information contained in the criminal background check used by the department is later determined to have been incomplete or inaccurate; provided, however, that such immunity shall not preclude the liability of a facility concerning claims based on information beyond the scope of the criminal record and satisfactory determination about the owner, applicant, or employee which the facility knew or should have known.
  (2) When a facility has obtained a satisfactory determination on an owner, applicant, or employee, there shall be a rebuttable presumption of due care for claims of negligent hiring, negligent retention, or other similar claims to the extent such claims are based upon an owner's, applicant's, or employee's criminal record.
(c) Nothing in this article shall require a facility to conduct any other type of criminal history check of an owner, applicant, or employee, and a facility shall not be held liable for claims of negligent hiring, negligent retention, or other similar claims based solely or in part on its failure to conduct other types of criminal history checks.
(d) Nothing in this article shall be construed to waive the sovereign immunity of the state, the department, or any other entity of the state.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 420,§ 1-4, eff. 10/1/2019.
