# § 31-7-381. Definitions

(1) "Applicant" means an individual applying to provide personal care services to an elderly or disabled person in a residence or location not licensed by the department.
(2) "Criminal background check" means a search of the criminal records maintained by Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation to determine whether an applicant or employee has a criminal record.
(2.1) "Disabled person" means an adult or child who is mentally or physically incapacitated or has Alzheimer's disease or has dementia.
(3) "Elderly person" means an individual who is 65 years of age or older.
(4) "Employee" means any individual who is providing personal care services to an elderly or disabled person in a residence or location not licensed by the department.
(5) "Employer" means an individual who is considering an applicant or has hired an employee for a family member or ward or themselves, if they meet the statutory criteria and are independent. Such term shall include entities arranging care for Medicaid members through structured family caregiving.
(6) "Family member" means an individual with a close familial relationship, including, but not limited to, a spouse, parent, sibling, or grandparent.
(7) "Personal care services" means home care, health care, companionship, or transportation and includes, but is not limited to, providing assistance with bathing, eating, dressing, walking, shopping, fixing meals, and housework.
(8) "Registry check" means a review of the nurse aide registry provided for in Code Section 31-2-14, the state sexual offender registry, and the List of Excluded Individuals and Entities as authorized in Sections 1128 and 1156 of the federal Social Security Act, as it existed on February 1, 2018, or any other registry useful for the administration of this article as specified by rules of the department.
(9) "Ward" means an elderly or disabled person for whom a guardian has been appointed pursuant to Title 29.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 619,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 420,§ 1-5, eff. 10/1/2019.
