# § 31-7-23.1. Drop off of homeless patients by hospitals

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Area of operation" shall, for the purpose of hospitals owned or operated by hospital authorities, have the same meaning as defined in paragraph (1) of Code Section 31-7-71 and, for purposes of all other hospitals, shall be the county in which the hospital is located.
  (2) "Drop off" means the act of transporting a patient to a location different from the location where such patient received health care services or treatment, and shall include but not be limited to directly providing or funding the transportation of such patient to such different location.
  (3) "Homeless individual" means a person who has no access to or can reasonably be expected not to have access to either traditional or permanent housing which can be considered safe, sanitary, decent, and affordable.
  (4) "Hospital" means a publicly or privately owned hospital which is permitted to operate by the department pursuant to this article.
  (5) "Hospital authority" means a hospital authority created pursuant to Article 4 of this chapter.
(b) No hospital shall drop off a patient who is known to the hospital to be a homeless individual outside its area of operation unless:
  (1) Such drop-off location is in the county where such homeless individual was a resident prior to receiving health care services or treatment from such hospital; or
  (2) Such a drop off is at a facility or with a person, business, or organization that has agreed to accept the patient.
(c) A hospital that violates this Code section shall be liable to any state or local governmental entity for any costs incurred by such entity in providing services for a homeless individual as a result of such violation.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 274,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
