# § 31-7-71. Definitions

(1) "Area of operation" means the area within the city or county activating an authority. Such term shall also mean any other city or county in which the authority wishes to operate, provided the governing authorities and the board of any hospital authorities of such city and county request or approve such operation.
(2) "Authority" or "hospital authority" means any public corporation created by this article.
(3) "Governing body" means the elected or duly appointed officials constituting the governing body of a city or county.
(4) "Participating units" or "participating subdivisions" means any two or more counties, or any two or more municipalities, or a combination of any county and any municipality acting together for the creation of an authority.
(5) "Project" includes the acquisition, construction, and equipping of hospitals, health care facilities, dormitories, office buildings, clinics, housing accommodations, nursing homes, rehabilitation centers, extended care facilities, and other public health facilities for the use of patients and officers and employees of any institution under the supervision and control of any hospital authority or leased by the hospital authority for operation by others to promote the public health needs of the community and all utilities and facilities deemed by the authority necessary or convenient for the efficient operation thereof. Such term may also include any such institutions, utilities, and facilities located outside the city or county in which the authority is located, provided that the acquisition, construction, equipping, and operation thereof is requested or approved by the governing bodies of such city and county in which the project is located and by the board of any hospital authorities located within such city and county or provided that the acquisition, construction, equipping, and operation is to be located in the area of operation of the authority.
(6) "Resolution" means the resolution or ordinance to be adopted by governing bodies pursuant to which authorities are established.
