# § 31-7-192. Georgia Palliative Care and Quality of Life Advisory Council

(a) There is hereby created the Georgia Palliative Care and Quality of Life Advisory Council within the department. The council shall be composed of nine members, as follows:
  (1) The chairperson of the House Committee on Health and Human Services, or his or her designee;
  (2) The chairperson of the Senate Health and Human Services Committee, or his or her designee;
  (3) Two members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
  (4) Two members appointed by the President of the Senate; and
  (5) Three members appointed by the Governor. The appointing authorities are encouraged to coordinate their appointments so that the council includes interdisciplinary palliative care medical, nursing, social work, pharmacy, and spiritual professional expertise; patient and family caregiver advocate representation; and any relevant appointees from the department or other state entities or councils. Membership should include health professionals who have palliative care work experience or expertise in palliative care delivery models in a variety of inpatient, outpatient, and community settings, such as acute care, long-term care, or hospice, and with a variety of populations, including pediatric, youth, and adult patients. It is preferable that at least two councilmembers are board certified hospice and palliative medicine physicians or nurses.
(b) Appointed councilmembers shall serve for a period of three years. The members shall elect a chairperson and vice chairperson from among their membership whose duties shall be established by the council.
(c) The department shall fix a time and place for regular meetings of the council, which shall meet at least twice yearly.
(d) Councilmembers shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be allowed actual and necessary expenses in the performance of their duties. Any legislative members of the council shall receive the allowances provided for in Code Section 28-1-8. Citizen members shall receive a daily expense allowance in the amount specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21 as well as the mileage or transportation allowance authorized for state employees. If any members selected to serve on the council are state officials, other than legislative members, or are state employees, they shall receive no compensation for their services on the council but shall be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the performance of their duties as members of the council in the same manner as reimbursements are made in their capacity as state officials or state employees. The funds necessary for the reimbursement of the expenses of state officials, other than legislative members, and state employees shall come from funds appropriated to or otherwise available to their respective departments.
(e) The council shall consult with and advise the department on matters related to the establishment, maintenance, operation, and outcomes evaluation of palliative care initiatives in this state.
(f) The council, no later than October 1, 2019, and annually thereafter, shall submit to the Office of Health Strategy and Coordination a report of its findings and recommendations.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 41,§ 2-7, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 31, eff. 5/9/2017.
Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 342,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
