# § 31-7-353. Records check application; transmittal of fingerprints; penalties for unauthorized release or disclosure of information

(a) Accompanying any application for a new license, the candidate facility shall furnish to the department a records check application for each owner and each applicant and employee. In lieu of such records check application, such facility may submit evidence, satisfactory to the department, that within the immediately preceding 12 months each owner and each applicant or employee received a satisfactory determination that includes a records check clearance date that is no more than 12 months old, or that any owner, applicant, or employee whose fingerprint records check determination revealed a criminal record of any kind has subsequently received a satisfactory determination. The time frames set forth in this subsection shall not apply when fingerprints have been retained by the department due to its participation in the program described in subparagraph (a)(1)(F) of Code Section 35-3-33.
(b) On or before January 1, 2021, each owner and employee of a currently licensed facility shall furnish to the department a records check application. In lieu of such records check application, a facility may submit evidence, satisfactory to the department, that within the immediately preceding 12 months each owner and employee received a satisfactory determination. The time frames set forth in this subsection shall not apply when fingerprints have been retained by the department due to its participation in the program described in subparagraph (a)(1)(F) of Code Section 35-3-33.
(c) Upon receipt of fingerprints submitted pursuant to a records check application, GCIC shall promptly transmit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a search of bureau records and shall promptly conduct a search of its own records and records to which it has access. Within ten days after receiving fingerprints acceptable to GCIC, it shall notify the department in writing of any criminal record or if there is no such finding. After a search of Federal Bureau of Investigation records and fingerprints and upon receipt of the bureau's report, the department shall make a determination about an owner's, applicant's, or employee's criminal record.
(d) Neither GCIC, the department, any law enforcement agency, nor the employees of any such entities shall be responsible for the accuracy of information nor have any liability for defamation, invasion of privacy, negligence, or any other claim in connection with any dissemination of information or determination based thereon pursuant to this Code section.
(e) All information received from the Federal Bureau of Investigation or GCIC shall be used exclusively for employment or licensure purposes and shall not be released or otherwise disclosed to any other person or agency. All such information collected by the department shall be maintained by the department pursuant to laws regarding and rules or regulations of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and GCIC, as is applicable. Penalties for the unauthorized release or disclosure of any such information shall be as prescribed pursuant to laws regarding and rules or regulations of the Federal Bureau of Investigation and GCIC, as is applicable.
(f) If the department is participating in the program described in subparagraph (a)(1)(F) of Code Section 35-3-33, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation and the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall be authorized to retain fingerprints obtained pursuant to this Code section for such program and the department shall notify the individual whose fingerprints were taken of the parameters of such retention.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 31, eff. 5/12/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 74,§ 1, eff. 10/1/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 420,§ 1-4, eff. 10/1/2019.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 255, § 3, eff. 7/1/2001.
