# § 31-7-113. Creation of Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly Authority in each county and municipality; board of directors

(a) There is created in and for each county and municipal corporation in this state a public body corporate and politic to be known as the "Residential Care Facilities for the Elderly Authority" of such county or municipal corporation.
(b) Each authority shall consist of a board of seven directors to be appointed by resolution of the governing body of such county or municipal corporation for initial terms of two, four, and six years and thereafter for staggered terms of six years. The governing body of the municipality or county shall initially elect two directors for two years, two directors for four years, and three directors for six years; and thereafter the terms of all directors shall be six years. If at the end of any term of office of any director a successor thereto shall not have been elected, the director whose term of office shall have expired shall continue to hold office until his successor shall be so elected. A majority of the directors shall constitute a quorum but no action may be taken by the board without the affirmative vote of a majority of the full membership of the board.
(c) The directors shall be taxpayers residing in the county or municipal corporation for which the authority is created, and their successors shall be appointed as provided by the resolution described in subsection (b) of this Code section. No director shall be an officer or employee of the county or municipal corporation. The directors shall elect one of their number as chairman and another as vice-chairman and shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer or a secretary-treasurer, any of whom may but need not be a director. The directors shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties.
(d) No authority shall transact any business or exercise any powers under this article until the governing body of the county or municipal corporation shall, by proper resolution, declare that there is a need for an authority to function in such county or municipal corporation. A copy of the resolution shall be filed with the Secretary of State, who shall maintain a record of all authorities activated under this article.
(e) The authority may make bylaws and regulations for its governance and may delegate to one or more of its officers, agents, and employees such powers and duties as may be deemed necessary and proper. The authority shall have perpetual existence.
