# § 31-7-155. Certificates of need for new service or extending service area; exemption from certificate

(a) No home health agency initiating service or extending the range of its service area shall be licensed unless the department determines, in accordance with Article 3 of Chapter 6 of this title and regulations pursuant thereto, that there is a need for said services within the area to be served. All home health agencies which were delivering services prior to July 1, 1979, and were certified for participation in either Title XVIII or Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act prior to such date shall be exempt from a certificate of need, except in those instances where expansion of services or service areas is requested by such home health agencies. Such exemption from a certificate of need shall extend to all areas in which a home health agency was licensed by the department to provide services on or before December 31, 1989, except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) Concerning an exemption from a certificate of need pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, service areas which were the subject of litigation pending in any court of competent jurisdiction, whether by way of appeal, remand, stay, or otherwise, as of December 31, 1989, shall not be so exempt except as set forth in the final unappealed administrative or judicial decision rendered in such litigation.
(c) Except with respect to a home health agency's service areas which were the subject of litigation pending in any court of competent jurisdiction as of December 31, 1989, the department shall not consider any request for or issue a determination of an exemption from a certificate of need pursuant to this Code section after December 31, 1989.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 392,§ 2-16, eff. 7/1/2009.
