# § 47-24-22. Administration and operation of fund; actuarial and other services; technical adviser; actuarial investigation; rate of interest; rules and regulations; records; payment of employees and expenses

(a) The general administration and responsibility for the proper operation of the fund and for putting this chapter into effect are vested in the board.
(b) The board shall engage such actuarial and other services as shall be required to transact the business of the fund.
(c) The board shall designate an actuary who shall be the technical adviser of the board on matters regarding the operation of the fund and shall perform such other duties as are required in connection therewith.
(d) At least once in each five-year period following the date of establishment, the actuary shall make an actuarial investigation into the mortality, service, and compensation experience of the members of the fund and shall make a valuation of the contingent assets and liabilities of the fund. The board, after taking into account the results of such investigation and valuation, shall adopt for the fund such mortality, service, and other tables as shall be deemed necessary.
(e) On the basis of regular interest and tables adopted by the board, the actuary shall make valuations of the contingent assets and liabilities of the fund at least once every three years.
(f) The board shall keep in convenient form such data as shall be necessary for the actuarial valuations of the contingent assets and liabilities of the fund and for checking the experience of the fund.
(g) The board shall determine, from time to time, the rate of regular interest for use in all calculations, with the rate of 4 percent per annum applicable unless changed by the board.
(h) Subject to the limitations of this chapter, the board shall, from time to time, establish rules and regulations for the administration of the fund and for the transaction of business.
(i) The board shall keep a record of all of its proceedings under this chapter, which record shall be open to the public.
(j) All persons employed by the board and the expenses of the board shall be paid from funds appropriated by the General Assembly.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 8, § 1, eff. 5/14/2003.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 931, eff. 7/1/2002.
See 2002 Ga. Laws 931, § 2.
