# § 36-45-5. Harold F. Holtz Municipal Training Institute

(a) There is created and established the Harold F. Holtz Municipal Training Institute. Except as otherwise provided in Code Sections 36-45-4 and 36-45-20, all costs of operating and conducting the institute shall be paid for from public funds appropriated for such purposes.
(b) The Vinson Institute shall establish, in consultation with the Georgia Municipal Association, a committee of elected municipal officials to design, implement, and administer the course of training and education required by Code Sections 36-45-4 and 36-45-20.
(c) The course of training and education required by Code Sections 36-45-4 and 36-45-20 shall be conducted by the institute under such rules, regulations, procedures, policies, requirements, and standards as prescribed from time to time by the committee established pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section.
(d) The committee established pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall establish guidelines and procedures to permit any person elected or appointed as a member of a municipal governing authority after January 1 of a calendar year or any person who is unable to attend or complete the course of training and education when offered by the institute due to medical disability, providential cause, or any other reason deemed sufficient by such committee, to comply with the requirements of Code Sections 36-45-4 and 36-45-20.
(e) The committee established pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall perform such other duties and have such other powers and authority as may be necessary and proper or as prescribed by general law.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 36, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 779, § 1, eff. 5/19/2004.
