# § 33-51-3. Development of guidelines; promotion by Commissioner; authority of Commissioner

(a) The Commissioner shall develop flexible guidelines for coverage and approval of health savings account eligible high deductible plans which are designed to qualify under federal and state requirements as high deductible health plans for use with health savings accounts which comply with federal requirements under the applicable provisions of the federal Internal Revenue Code for high deductible health plans sold in connection with health savings accounts.
(b) The Commissioner shall be authorized to encourage and promote the marketing of health savings account eligible high deductible plans by accident and sickness insurers in this state; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall be construed to authorize the sale of insurance in violation of Chapter 3 of this title or interstate sales of insurance.
(c) The Commissioner shall be authorized to conduct a national study of health savings account eligible high deductible plans available in other states and to determine if and how these products serve the uninsured and if they should be made available to Georgians.
(d) The Commissioner shall be authorized to develop an automatic or fast track approval process for health savings account eligible high deductible plans already approved under the laws and regulations of this state or other states.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 33, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 186,§ 1-14, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 463,§ 3, eff. 5/7/2008; exp. 1/1/2015.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 462,§ 2, eff. 5/7/2008.
