# § 3-10-11. Contraband apparatus and appliances; existence of property rights therein; summary destruction of contraband; governing procedure for forfeiture of vehicles, boats, and vessels

(a)
  (1) All apparatus or appliances which are used for the unlawful purpose of distilling or manufacturing any distilled spirits are declared to be contraband.
  (2) No person shall have any property right in or to the contraband specified in this subsection.
  (3) Whenever apparatus or appliances used or about to be used for the unlawful purpose of manufacturing, using, holding, or containing any distilled spirits are found or discovered by any sheriff, deputy sheriff, or other law enforcement officer of this state, the same shall be summarily destroyed and rendered useless by him or her without any formal order of the court.
(b) All vehicles and conveyances of every kind and description in this state and all boats and vessels of every kind and description in any of the waters of this state used in conveying, removing, concealing, or storing any distilled spirits, the transportation, possession, or storing of which is in violation of law, are declared to be contraband and shall be seized by any law enforcement officer. Such contraband shall be subject to forfeiture in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9, including those counties and municipalities in which the sale of distilled spirits is lawful.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
