# § 3-10-12. Raw materials or substances, fixtures, implements, or apparatus used or intended for use in unlawful distillation or manufacture of distilled spirits declared contraband; property rights in contraband; governing procedures for seizure and forfeiture

(a) Any raw materials or substances, including, but not limited to, sugar of any grade or type, and any fixture, implement, or apparatus used or intended for use in the unlawful distilling or manufacturing of any distilled spirits are declared to be contraband.
(b) No person shall have any property right in or to any contraband specified in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Whenever any item used or about to be used as specified in subsection (a) of this Code section is found or discovered, whether in transit, in storage, or at a site of unlawful distillation or manufacture, by any law enforcement officer, it shall be subject to the following dispositions:
  (1) When found or discovered at a site of unlawful distillation or manufacture, it may be summarily destroyed and rendered useless by any law enforcement officer without any formal order of the court or, in the event any of the raw materials or substances are fit for human consumption or if any of the fixtures, implements, or apparatus are of any beneficial use to the educational authorities of the county for use in any of their educational programs, they may be delivered to the public schools of the county in which seized for use in the schools. When any of the foregoing items are delivered to a public school system, the officer delivering the items shall obtain from the appropriate school authorities an itemized receipt detailing all items delivered to the system and report such information as provided in subsection (g) of Code Section 9-16-19. In the event any of the foregoing items are destroyed by a law enforcement officer, the officer shall execute an affidavit of such fact in which all items destroyed shall be listed. The receipts and affidavits shall be maintained by the officer and shall be open to inspection by the public upon request; or
  (2) When found or discovered in transit or in storage by any law enforcement officer, the items shall be seized by the officer and forfeited in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 3-3, eff. 7/1/2015.
