# § 25-4-6. Meetings, quorum, and annual reporting of council and volunteer council

(a) The business of the council shall be conducted in the following manner:
  (1) The council shall hold at least two regular meetings each year at the call of the chairperson or upon the written request of six members of the council. Six members of the council shall constitute a quorum. The council shall adopt such rules for the transaction of its business as it shall desire and may appoint such committees as it considers necessary to carry out its business and duties; and
  (2) The council shall make an annual report of its activities to the Governor and to the General Assembly and shall include in the report its recommendations for appropriate legislation. The council shall not be required to distribute copies of the annual report to the members of the General Assembly but shall notify the members of the availability of the report in the manner which it deems to be most effective and efficient.
(b) The business of the volunteer council shall be conducted in the following manner:
  (1) The volunteer council shall hold at least two regular meetings each year at the call of the chairperson or upon written request of four members of the volunteer council. Four members of the volunteer council shall constitute a quorum. The volunteer council shall adopt such rules for the transaction of its business as it shall desire and may appoint such committees as it considers necessary to carry out its business and duties; and
  (2) The volunteer council shall make an annual report of its activities to the Governor and to the General Assembly and shall include in the report its recommendations for appropriate legislation. The volunteer council shall not be required to distribute copies of the annual report to the members of the General Assembly but shall notify the members of the availability of the report in the manner which it deems to be most effective and efficient.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 542,§ 8, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 25, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 449,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 333,§ 21, eff. 7/1/2005.
