# § 25-4-9. Basic firefighter training course; transfer of certification

(a)
  (1)
    (A) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, full-time, and part-time firefighters, including airport firefighters, shall successfully complete a basic training course. The council shall determine the course content, number of hours, and all other matters relative to basic firefighter training, including airport rescue firefighter training for full-time and part-time firefighters. Upon satisfactory completion of such basic training, a firefighter shall be issued a certificate of completion evidencing the same. Each firefighter shall be required to successfully complete such basic training course within 12 months after being employed or appointed as a firefighter or, in the case of airport firefighters, within such time period as the council may prescribe by rule or regulation.
    (B) The volunteer council shall determine the course content, number of hours, and all other matters relative to basic firefighter training for volunteer firefighters. Each volunteer firefighter shall be required to complete such basic training course within 18 months after being appointed as volunteer firefighter.
  (2) Each firefighter who presents to the council, or to the volunteer council in the case of volunteer firefighters, satisfactory documentation, as determined by the council or volunteer council, of his or her training as a member of the United States armed forces, the Georgia National Guard, or the Georgia Air National Guard shall be issued a certificate of completion by the council or volunteer council.
(b) A firefighter certified by the council may, upon termination of employment from any fire department and upon agreement with a subsequently employing fire department, transfer such certification to the employing fire department.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section, any local fire department may refuse to accept the transfer of previously acquired certification and may require any newly employed firefighter to complete the basic training course provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 542,§ 12, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 327,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 121,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 388,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2004
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 952,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 787,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2002.
