# § 25-4-3.1. Establishment of Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council

(a) There is established the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council which shall serve as a division of the council. The volunteer council shall possess all powers, rights, and duties as set forth by this chapter and shall not be considered an advisory committee as set forth in subsection (e) of Code Section 25-4-3. The volunteer council shall be composed of seven members, all of which shall be members of volunteer fire departments that are otherwise not participants in the paid fire service unless in the capacity as a paid local fire chief in a jurisdiction with all volunteer firefighters. Two members shall be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor. Two members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives. The remaining three members shall be appointed by the Governor.
(b) The members of the volunteer council appointed by the Governor pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall be appointed at the sole discretion of the Governor; provided, however, that the Governor may consider for such appointments persons suggested for membership thereon as follows:
  (1) The Association County Commissioners of Georgia may suggest the names of three persons;
  (2) The Georgia Municipal Association may suggest the names of three persons;
  (3) The Georgia Association of Fire Chiefs may suggest the names of three persons; and
  (4) The Executive Board of the Georgia State Firefighters Association may suggest the names of three persons.
(c)
  (1) The first members of the volunteer council appointed pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall be appointed to take office on January 1, 2021. The two members appointed by the Lieutenant Governor shall be appointed for initial terms of one year, the two members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall be appointed for initial terms of two years, and the three members appointed by the Governor shall be appointed for initial terms of three years. Thereafter, successors shall be appointed for terms of three years as their respective terms of office expire.
  (2) All members shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. In the event of a vacancy in the membership of the volunteer council for any reason, including ceasing to meet the qualifications required pursuant subsection (a) of this Code section, the Governor shall fill such vacancy for the unexpired term; provided, however, that a vacancy in those members of the volunteer council appointed by the Lieutenant Governor or the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. In order for the Governor to consider the names of persons suggested for membership on the volunteer council pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, such names must be submitted to the Governor by the respective organizations at least 60 days but not more than 90 days prior to the expiration of the respective terms of office or prior to the appointment of the initial members of the volunteer council who take office on January 1, 2021. The Governor shall be authorized, but not required, to request the appropriate organization designated in subsection (b) of this Code section to suggest the names of three persons for the Governor's consideration in making an appointment to fill a vacancy.
(d) At the first regular meeting of the volunteer council held in each odd-numbered year, the volunteer council shall elect a chairperson and such other officers from its own membership as it deems necessary to serve until successors are elected by the volunteer council as provided in this Code section.
(e) The volunteer council may, from time to time, designate an advisory committee to assist and advise the volunteer council in carrying out its duties under this chapter. The members of any such advisory committee shall serve at the pleasure of the volunteer council.
(f) Each member of the volunteer council and each member of an advisory committee of the volunteer council, in carrying out their official duties, shall be entitled to receive the same expense and mileage allowance authorized for members of professional licensing boards by subsection (f) of Code Section 43-1-2. The funds for such expenses and allowances shall be paid from funds appropriated or available to the Department of Public Safety.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 542,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2021.
