# § 25-4-2. Definitions

(1) "Airport" means any airport located in this state which has regularly scheduled commercial air carrier service or commuter airline service as required for certification under Section 139.49 of the Federal Aviation Administration regulations.
(2) "Airport firefighter" means any person assigned to any airport located in this state who performs the duties of aircraft fire fighting or rescue.
(3) "Candidate" means a prospective firefighter who has not yet been certified by the council as having met the requirements of this chapter.
(4) "Certified firefighter" or "state certified firefighter" means any firefighter who has been certified by the council as having met the requirements of this chapter.
(5) "Council" means the Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Council.
(5.1) "Fire department" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 25-3-21.
(6) "Firefighter" means a recruit or a trained individual who is a full-time employee, part-time employee, or volunteer for a municipal, county, state, or private incorporated fire department and as such has duties of responding to mitigate a variety of emergency and nonemergency situations where life, property, or the environment is at risk, which may include without limitation fire suppression; fire prevention activities; emergency medical services; hazardous materials response and preparedness; technical rescue operations; search and rescue; disaster management and preparedness; community service activities; response to civil disturbances and terrorism incidents; nonemergency functions including training, preplanning, communications, maintenance, and physical conditioning; and other related emergency and nonemergency duties as may be assigned or required; provided, however, that a firefighter's assignments may vary based on geographic, climatic, and demographic conditions or other factors including training, experience, and ability.
(7) "Full-time" means employed for compensation on a basis of at least 40 hours per week by any municipal, county, state, or private incorporated fire department.
(8) "Part-time" means employed for compensation on less than a full-time basis by any municipal, county, state, or private incorporated fire department.
(8.1) "Recruit" means a prospective firefighter who has not yet been certified or registered by the council as having met the requirements of Code Section 25-4-8 and the rules and regulations to be a firefighter as provided for by the council.
(9) "Volunteer" means not employed for compensation on an hourly or salaried basis, but appointed and regularly enrolled to serve as a firefighter for any municipal, county, state, or private incorporated fire department.
(10) "Volunteer council" means the Georgia Volunteer Fire Service Council established by Code Section 25-4-3.1.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 542,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 330,§ 2, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 449,§ 2, eff. 5/6/2008.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 121,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 388,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2004
