# § 25-4-7. Functions and powers of council and volunteer council

(a) The council is vested with the following functions and powers:
  (1) To promulgate rules and regulations for the administration of the council;
  (2) To provide rules of procedure for its internal management and control;
  (3) To enter into contracts or do such things as may be necessary and incidental to the administration of its authority pursuant to this chapter;
  (4) To establish uniform minimum standards for the employment and training of full-time firefighters, part-time firefighters, airport firefighters, fire and life safety educators, fire inspectors, fire investigators, and other such firefighting service professionals as determined by the council, including qualifications, certifications, recertifications, decertifications, and probations for certified individuals and suspensions for noncertified individuals, and requirements, which are consistent with this chapter;
  (5) To establish minimum curriculum requirements for schools operated by or for any employing agency for the specific purpose of training firefighter recruits or full-time firefighters, part-time firefighters, airport firefighters, fire and life safety educators, fire inspectors, and fire investigators;
  (6) To approve institutions and facilities for school operation by or for any employing agency for the specific purpose of training full-time and part-time firefighters and full-time and part-time firefighter recruits, including airport firefighters;
  (7) To make or support studies on any aspect of firefighter education and training or recruitment;
  (8) To make recommendations concerning any matter within its purview;
  (9) To establish basic firefighter training requirements for full-time, part-time, and contract firefighters, including airport firefighters;
  (10) To certify any person satisfactorily complying with the training program established in accordance with paragraph (9) of this subsection and the qualifications for employment covered in this chapter; and
  (11) To issue a certificate to any person who has received training in another state or who has received training as a federal firefighter by the United States government, when the council has determined that the training was at least equivalent to that required by the council for approved firefighter education and training programs in this state and when the person has satisfactorily complied with all other requirements of this chapter.
(b) The volunteer council is vested with the following functions and powers:
  (1) To promulgate rules and regulations for the administration of the volunteer council;
  (2) To provide rules of procedure for its internal management and control;
  (3) To enter into contracts or do such things as may be necessary and incidental to the administration of its authority pursuant to this chapter;
  (4) To establish uniform minimum standards for the training of volunteer firefighters, including qualifications, certifications, and requirements, which are consistent with this chapter;
  (5) To make or support studies on any aspect of firefighter education and training or recruitment;
  (6) To make recommendations concerning any matter within its purview;
  (7) To establish basic firefighter training requirements for volunteer firefighters;
  (8) To certify any person satisfactorily complying with the training program established in accordance with paragraph (7) of this subsection and the qualifications for serving as a volunteer firefighter covered in this chapter; and
  (9) To issue a certificate to any person who has received training in another state or who has received training as a federal firefighter by the United States government, when the volunteer council has determined that the training was at least equivalent to that required by the volunteer council for approved volunteer firefighter education and training programs in this state and when the person has satisfactorily complied with all other requirements of this chapter.
(c) All rules and regulations promulgated by the volunteer council may be overturned by a two-thirds' vote of the council. In such instance, the rule or regulation shall be returned to the volunteer council for reconsideration.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 542,§ 9, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 330,§ 3, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 449,§ 4, eff. 5/6/2008.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 121,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 388,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2004
