# § 33-14-15. Borrowing of money

(a) A domestic stock or mutual insurer may borrow money to defray the expenses of its organization, to provide it with surplus funds, or for any purpose required by its business upon a written agreement that the money is required to be repaid only out of the insured's surplus in excess of that stipulated in the agreement. The agreement may provide for interest not exceeding a reasonable rate per annum which interest shall or shall not constitute a liability as provided in said agreement.
(b) Money so borrowed together with interest on the borrowed money if so stipulated in the agreement shall not be considered on the financial statements of the insurer as a legal liability or be the basis of any setoff; but until repaid, financial statements filed or published by the insurer shall show as a footnote thereto the amount of borrowed money then unpaid together with any interest on the money accrued but unpaid. No borrowed surplus shall be returned to the lender except out of earned surplus in excess of that surplus required by this title to transact the kind of insurance for which the company is authorized; provided, however, that on liquidation of the company said borrowed surplus will be paid off out of any assets remaining after the payment of all other liabilities of the companies.
(c) In advance of any such loan the insurer shall file with the Commissioner a statement of the purposes of the loan and a copy of the proposed loan agreement which shall be subject to the Commissioner's approval. The loan and agreement shall be deemed approved unless within 45 days after date of such filing with the Commissioner the insurer is notified in writing of the Commissioner's disapproval and the reasons for the disapproval. The Commissioner shall so disapprove any such proposed loan or agreement if he finds that the loan is reasonably unnecessary or excessive for the purpose intended, that the terms of the loan agreement are not fair and equitable to the parties, to other similar lenders, if any, or to the insurer, that it is not fair to policyholders, or that the information so filed by the insurer is inadequate.
(d) Any loan to a mutual insurer or a substantial portion of the loan shall be repaid by the insurer when no longer reasonably necessary for the purpose originally intended. No repayment of the loan shall be made by a mutual insurer unless pursuant to regulations made by the Commissioner.
(e) This Code section shall not apply to loans obtained by the insurer in the ordinary course of business from banks and other financial institutions nor to loans secured by pledge of assets.
