# § 33-14-126. Responsibilities of resulting insurers

(a) Except as provided in this Code section, when a division becomes effective, a resulting insurer shall be responsible:
  (1) Individually for the policies and other liabilities the resulting insurer issues, undertakes, or incurs in its own name after the division;
  (2) Individually for the policies and other liabilities of the dividing insurer that are allocated to or remain the liability of the resulting insurer to the extent specified in the plan of division; and
  (3) Jointly and severally with the other resulting insurers for the policies and other liabilities of the dividing insurer that are not allocated by the plan of division.
(b) If a division breaches an obligation of the dividing insurer, all of the resulting insurers shall be liable, jointly and severally, for the breach, but the validity and effectiveness of the division shall not be affected by the breach.
(c) A direct or indirect allocation of capital, surplus, property, or policies or other liabilities in a division shall not be considered a distribution for purposes of the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the dividing insurer or any of the resulting insurers.
(d) Liens, security interests, and other charges on the capital, surplus, or other property of the dividing insurer shall not be impaired by the division, notwithstanding any otherwise enforceable allocation of policies or other liabilities of the dividing insurer.
(e) If the dividing insurer is bound by a security agreement governed by Article 9 of Title 11, or Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code as enacted in any other jurisdiction, and the security agreement provides that the security interest attaches to after-acquired collateral, each resulting insurer shall be bound by the security agreement.
(f) Except as provided in the plan of division and specifically approved by the Commissioner, an allocation of a policy or other liability shall not affect the rights under any other law of a policyholder or creditor owed payment on the policy, or payment of any other type of liability or performance of the obligation that creates the liability, except that those rights shall be available only against a resulting insurer responsible for the policy, liability, or obligation under this Code section.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 147,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
