# § 12-6A-7. Establishment of the Board of Trustees of the Georgia Outdoor Stewardship Trust Fund; membership; role; priorities

(a) There is hereby established the Board of Trustees of the Georgia Outdoor Stewardship Trust Fund, which shall consist of 11 members as follows:
  (1) The commissioner of the Georgia Department of Natural Resources, who shall also serve as chairperson of the board;
  (2) The director of the State Forestry Commission;
  (3) The director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources;
  (4) The commissioner of Transportation;
  (5) The director of the Coastal Resources Division of the Department of Natural Resources, as an ex officio, nonvoting member;
  (6) The director of the Wildlife Resources Division of the Department of Natural Resources, as an ex officio, nonvoting member;
  (7) The director of state parks of the Department of Natural Resources, as an ex officio, nonvoting member; and
  (8)
    (A) Two members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and
    (B) Two members appointed by the President of the Senate. The members appointed pursuant to this paragraph may be selected from any of the following private and public sectors: forestry, conservation, hunting, fishing, and local government. Such members shall serve four-year terms, provided that three of the initial appointees shall each serve an initial two-year term. Such members shall be and shall remain Georgia residents during their tenure on the board and shall possess a demonstrated knowledge of and commitment to land conservation and recreation.
(b) The board shall meet at least quarterly each year for the transaction of its business and to review the progress of the Georgia Outdoor Stewardship Trust Fund. Three-fifths of the members of the board present at any board meeting shall constitute a quorum in order to conduct business; provided, however, that in the absence of a quorum, a majority of the members present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall attend. Any board action or recommendation must be approved by a simple majority of the members of the entire board then in office, unless specified otherwise in this Code section.
(c) The board shall accept applications from qualified local governments as defined in paragraph (18) of subsection (a) of Code Section 50-8-2, constituted recreation authorities registered with the Department of Community Affairs, state agencies, or nongovernmental entities annually for project proposals eligible for funding. The board shall evaluate the proposals received pursuant to priorities established by the board.
(d) In reviewing applications, the board shall give increased priority to projects:
  (1) For which matching funds are available;
  (2) That support and promote hunting, fishing, and wildlife viewing;
  (3) That contribute to improving the quality and quantity of surface water and ground water;
  (4) That contribute to improving the water quality and flow of springs; and
  (5) For which the state's land conservation plans overlap with the United States military's need to protect lands, water, and habitats so as to ensure the sustainability of military missions including:
    (A) Protecting habitats on nonmilitary land for any species found on United States military land that is designated as threatened or endangered, or is a candidate for such designation under the federal Endangered Species Act of 1973, as amended, 16 U.S.C. Section 1531, et seq. or state law;
    (B) Protecting areas underlying low-level United States military air corridors or operating areas; and
    (C) Protecting areas identified as clear zones, accident potential zones, and air installation compatible use buffer zones delineated by the United States military, and for which federal or other funding is available to assist with the project.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 12, eff. 5/12/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 222,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 415,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
