# § 12-6A-6. Grants; conditions of eligibility; loans; funds for administration

(a) From within the Georgia Outdoor Stewardship Trust Fund, moneys shall be made available in each fiscal year for grants to any qualified local government as defined in paragraph (18) of subsection (a) of Code Section 50-8-2, any constituted recreation authority registered with the Department of Community Affairs, any state agency, or any nongovernmental entity of this state having a project proposal which has been approved by the department. As a condition of eligibility for any such grant, a project proposal shall have as its primary purpose one of the following conservation objectives:
  (1) To support state parks and trails. Funds disbursed for the purposes of this paragraph shall be used to aid in the improvement and maintenance of currently owned state parks and trails;
  (2) To support local parks and trails of state and regional significance. Funds disbursed for purposes of this paragraph shall be grants to such applicants to acquire and improve parks and trails;
  (3) To provide stewardship of conservation land. Funds disbursed for purposes of this paragraph shall be used for maintenance or restoration projects of the department to enhance public access, use, or safe enjoyment of permanently protected conservation land; or
  (4)
    (A) To acquire critical areas for the provision or protection of clean water, wildlife, hunting, or fishing, for military installation buffering, or for natural resource-based outdoor recreation. Real property shall only be acquired pursuant to this chapter under the following circumstances:
      (i) Where such property is, at the time of acquisition, being leased by the state as a wildlife management area;
      (ii) Where such property adjoins state wildlife management areas, state parks, or would provide better public access to such areas;
      (iii) Lands identified in any wildlife action plan developed by any agency of the state;
      (iv) Riparian lands so as to protect any drinking water supply; or
      (v) Lands surrounding any military base or military installation.
    (B) Acquisitions of real property or any interests therein pursuant to this chapter shall not be made through condemnation.
(b) From within the Georgia Outdoor Stewardship Trust Fund, moneys may also be made available in each fiscal year for loans to any city, county, or nongovernmental entity to defray the costs of conservation land or of conservation easements placed upon property that ensure its permanent protection as conservation land. Any such loan shall bear interest at a rate established by the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority.
(c) From within the Georgia Outdoor Stewardship Trust Fund, moneys shall also be made available in each fiscal year for grants as authorized by Code Section 12-6A-12.
(d) From within the Georgia Outdoor Stewardship Trust Fund, moneys shall also be made available in each fiscal year for costs incurred by the state in administering the program, but in an amount not to exceed 5 percent of the total moneys received by the state.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 222,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 415,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
