# § 2-13-14. Issuance and enforcement of withdrawal from distribution orders; condemnation and confiscation authorized; disposition of condemned feed

(a)Withdrawal from distribution orders. When the Commissioner or his authorized agent has reasonable cause to believe that any lot of commercial feed is being distributed in violation of this chapter or any of the prescribed regulations under this chapter, he may issue and enforce a written or printed withdrawal from distribution order, warning the distributor not to dispose of the lot of commercial feed in any manner until written permission is given by the Commissioner or the court. The Commissioner shall release the lot of commercial feed so withdrawn when such provisions and regulations have been complied with. If compliance is not obtained within 30 days, the Commissioner may begin, or upon request of the distributor or licensee shall begin, proceedings for condemnation.
(b)Condemnation and confiscation. Any lot of commercial feed not in compliance with such provisions and regulations shall be subject to seizure on complaint of the Commissioner to the superior court of the county in which the commercial feed is located. If the court finds the commercial feed to be in violation of this chapter and orders the condemnation of the commercial feed, it shall be disposed of in any manner consistent with the quality of the commercial feed and the laws of this state, provided that in no instance shall the disposition of the commercial feed be ordered by the court without first giving the claimant an opportunity to apply to the court for release of the commercial feed or for permission to process or relabel the commercial feed to bring it into compliance with this chapter.
