# § 2-13-13. Inspections authorized; receipt for samples; warrant; methods of sampling and analysis generally; forwarding of results

(a) For the purpose of enforcing this chapter and in order to determine whether its provisions have been complied with, including whether or not any operations may be subject to such provisions, officers or employees duly designated by the Commissioner, upon presenting appropriate credentials to the owner, operator, or agent in charge, are authorized to enter, during normal business hours, any factory, warehouse, or establishment within this state in which commercial feeds are manufactured, processed, packed, or held for distribution and any vehicle being used to transport or hold such feeds and to inspect, at reasonable times, within reasonable limits, and in a reasonable manner, such factory, warehouse, establishment, or vehicle and all pertinent equipment, finished and unfinished materials, containers, and labeling therein. The inspection may include the verification of only such records and production and control procedures as may be necessary to determine compliance with the good manufacturing practice regulations established under paragraph (8) of Code Section 2-13-10. Each such inspection shall be commenced and completed with reasonable promptness. Upon completion of the inspection, the person in charge of the facility or vehicle shall be so notified.
(b) If the officer or employee making such inspection of a factory, warehouse, or other establishment has obtained a sample in the course of the inspection, upon completion of the inspection and prior to leaving the premises he shall give to the owner, operator, or agent in charge thereof a receipt describing the samples obtained.
(c) If the owner of any factory, warehouse, or establishment described in subsection (a) of this Code section or his agent refuses to admit the Commissioner or his agent to inspect the premises in accordance with subsection (a), the Commissioner is authorized to obtain from any court of this state a warrant directing such owner or his agent to submit the premises described in such warrant to inspection.
(d) For the purpose of enforcing this chapter, the Commissioner or his duly designated agent is authorized to enter upon any public or private premises, including any vehicle of transport, during regular business hours, to have access to, to obtain samples of, and to examine records relating to distribution of commercial feeds.
(e) Sampling and analysis shall be conducted in accordance with methods published by the Association of Official Analytical Chemists or with other generally recognized methods.
(f) The results of all analyses of official samples shall be forwarded by the Commissioner to the person named on the label and to the purchaser. When the inspection and analysis of an official sample indicates that a commercial feed has been adulterated or misbranded and upon request within ten days following receipt of the analysis, the Commissioner shall furnish to the licensee a portion of the sample concerned.
(g) The Commissioner, in determining for administrative purposes whether a commercial feed is deficient in any component, shall be guided by the official sample as defined in paragraph (12) of Code Section 2-13-1 and obtained and analyzed as provided for in subsections (c), (e), and (f) of this Code section.
