# § 2-13-1. Definitions

(1) "Brand name" means any word, name, symbol, or device or any combination thereof identifying the commercial feed of a distributor or licensee and distinguishing it from that of others.
(2) "Commercial feed" means all materials except whole, unmixed seed, when not adulterated within the meaning of Code Section 2-13-10, which are distributed for use as feed or for mixing in feed, provided that the Commissioner, by regulation, may exempt from this definition or from specific provisions of this chapter commodities such as hay, straw, stover, silage, cobs, husks, hulls, raw meat, and individual chemical compounds or substances when such materials are not intermixed or mixed with other materials and are not adulterated within the meaning of Code Section 2-13-10.
(3) "Customer-formula feed" means commercial feed which consists of a mixture of commercial feeds, feed ingredients, or both, each batch of which is manufactured according to the specific instructions of the final purchaser.
(4) "Distribute" means to offer for sale, sell, exchange, or barter commercial feed.
(5) "Distributor" means any person who distributes.
(6) "Drug" means any article intended for use in the diagnosis, cure, mitigation, treatment, or prevention of disease in animals other than man and any article other than feed intended to affect the structure or any function of the animal body.
(7) "Feed ingredient" means each of the constituent materials making up a commercial feed.
(8) "Label" means a display of written, printed, or graphic matter upon or affixed to the container in which a commercial feed is distributed or on the invoice or delivery slip with which a commercial feed is distributed.
(9) "Labeling" means all labels and other written, printed, or graphic matter upon a commercial feed or any of its containers or wrappers or accompanying such commercial feed.
(9.1) "Licensee" means a person who obtains a commercial feed license.
(10) "Manufacture" means to grind, mix or blend, or package or to process further a commercial feed for distribution.
(11) "Mineral feed" means a commercial feed intended to supply primarily mineral elements or inorganic nutrients.
(12) "Official sample" means a sample of feed taken by the Commissioner or his agent in accordance with subsection (c), (e), or (f) of Code Section 2-13-13.
(13) "Owner" means a corporation or the stockholders thereof, a partnership, or an individual.
(14) "Percent" or "percentages" means percentages by weight.
(15) "Person" includes an individual, a partnership, a corporation, and an association.
(16) "Pet" means any domesticated animal normally maintained in or near the household of its owner.
(17) "Pet food" means any commercial feed prepared and distributed for consumption by dogs or cats.
(18) "Product name" means the name of the commercial feed which identifies it as to kind, class, or specific use.
(18.1) "Specialty pet" means any domesticated animal normally maintained in a cage or tank, such as, but not limited to, gerbils, hamsters, birds, fish, and turtles.
(18.2) "Specialty pet food" means any commercial feed prepared and distributed for consumption by specialty pets, but not including feeds for horses, rabbits, and wild birds.
(19) "Ton" means a net weight of 2,000 pounds avoirdupois.
