# § 2-13-6. License required for distribution; product registration; fees; refusal or cancellation of license or registration

(a) No person who manufactures a commercial feed within this state or whose name appears on the label of a commercial feed (guarantor), shall distribute a commercial feed in this state without first obtaining a commercial feed license from the Commissioner. No distributor may cause a commercial feed to be distributed in this state without first obtaining a commercial feed license; provided, however, that the Commissioner by rule or regulation may exempt certain distributors. Application for a commercial feed license shall be made on forms provided by the Commissioner that identify the manufacturer's or guarantor's or distributor's name, place of business, and location of each manufacturing facility in the state and such other appropriate information as may be deemed necessary for enforcement of this chapter.
(b) All licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year. Licenses are not transferable and no credit or refund may be granted for licenses held for less than one full year. All commercial feed licenses must be renewed by January 1 of each year. The license fee shall be based upon the number of tons of commercial feed distributed in this state during the preceding 12 month period ending December 31, provided that tonnage of small-package products subject to registration as specified in subsection (d) of this Code section shall not be used in calculating the license fee due. The amount of the license fee shall be based upon the schedule as prescribed in the rules and regulations of the Commissioner but shall not be less than $75.00 nor more than $2,000.00 per annum. Any fees collected pursuant to this Code section shall be retained pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-12-92.1.
(c) A commercial feed license must be renewed annually and fees shall be paid by January 31 of each calendar year, or the applicable license fee shall increase in the manner prescribed in the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
(d) No licensee shall distribute in this state a pet food or a specialty pet food in packages of ten pounds or less which has not been registered. The application for registration shall be submitted to the Commissioner on forms furnished by or acceptable to the Commissioner. All registrations expire on December 31 of each year. An annual registration fee of an amount prescribed in the rules and regulations of the Commissioner is due by January 1. Such registration fee shall be $40.00 per product registered, provided that the total of all such registration fees shall not exceed $2,000.00 per annum for any licensee.
(e) Annual registration fees received after January 31 shall be subject to a delinquent penalty as prescribed in the rules and regulations of the Commissioner.
(f) The license and registration fees provided by this Code section shall not exceed a total amount of $2,000.00 per annum for any licensee.
(g) The Commissioner is empowered to refuse the commercial feed license application or product registration of any firm not deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of this chapter and to cancel any commercial feed licenses or product registrations subsequently found not to be in compliance with this chapter, provided that no commercial feed license or product registration shall be refused or canceled unless the licensee has been given an opportunity to be heard before the Commissioner and to amend his application or take corrective action in order to comply with the requirements of this chapter.
(h) The Commissioner may request copies of labels and labeling in order to determine compliance with the provisions of this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-12, eff. 5/12/2010.
