# § 38-3-41. Creation; membership; allowances

(a) There is created a Board of Homeland Security that shall, for administrative purposes only, be attached to the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency.
(b) The board shall consist of 16 members who shall be as follows:
  (1) The Governor, ex officio, who shall be chairperson of the board;
  (2) The director of emergency management and homeland security;
  (3) The director of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation;
  (4) The commissioner of public safety;
  (5) The Attorney General or his or her designee who shall be the deputy attorney general or an assistant attorney general;
  (6) The adjutant general;
  (7) The commissioner of natural resources;
  (8) The commissioner of public health;
  (9) The State School Superintendent;
  (10) The commissioner of transportation;
  (11) The Commissioner of Agriculture;
  (12) The executive director of the Georgia Technology Authority; and
  (13) Five appointees of the Governor who shall be individuals from the public or private sector who are directly involved in policy, program, security, or funding activities relevant to homeland security or infrastructure protection; provided, however, that one such appointment shall be a sheriff, one such appointment shall be a member of the Senate, one such appointment shall be a member of the House of Representatives, and one such appointment shall be a chief executive of a law enforcement agency of a county or a municipality. Such appointees under this paragraph shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor.
(c)
  (1) Any legislative members of the board who may be appointed pursuant to paragraph (13) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall receive the allowances provided for in Code Section 28-1-8.
  (2) Members of the board who are state or local government officials, other than legislative members, or state or local government employees shall receive no compensation for their services on the board, but they may be reimbursed for expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties as members of the board in the same manner as they are reimbursed for expenses in their capacities as state or local government officials or state or local government employees.
  (3) Members of the board who are not legislators, state or local government officials, or state or local government employees shall receive a daily expense allowance in an amount the same as that specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21, as well as the mileage or transportation allowance authorized for state employees.
  (4) Funds for the reimbursement of the expenses of state or local government officials, other than legislative members, and state or local government employees shall come from funds appropriated to or otherwise available to their respective governments, departments, authorities, or agencies.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 435,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2018.
