# § 38-3-57. Establishment of standardized, verifiable, performance based unified incident command system; utilization; training; implementation; funding; first informer broadcasters

(a) The Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency shall establish and maintain, in collaboration with all appropriate state agencies and volunteer organizations with emergency support function roles and professional organizations that represent local public safety agencies, including the Emergency Management Association of Georgia, the Georgia Association of Police Chiefs, the Georgia Fire Chiefs' Association, and the Georgia Sheriffs' Association, a standardized, verifiable, performance based unified incident command system.
(b) Such system shall be consistent with the Georgia Emergency Operations Plan and shall be utilized in response to emergencies and disasters referenced in the Georgia Emergency Operations Plan, including presidentially declared disasters and states of emergency issued by the Governor.
(c) The Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, in cooperation with the Georgia Public Safety Training Center and the State Forestry Commission, shall develop or adopt a course of instruction for use in training and certifying emergency response personnel in unified incident command.
(d) All local public safety and emergency response organizations, including emergency management agencies, law enforcement agencies, fire departments, and emergency medical services, shall implement the standardized unified incident command system provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section by October 1, 2004.
(e) Local agencies that have not established such system by October 1, 2004, shall not be eligible for state reimbursement for any response or recovery related expenses.
(f)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term:
    (A) "Broadcaster" means any corporation or other entity that is primarily engaged in the business of broadcasting video or audio programming, whether through the public airwaves, cable, direct or indirect satellite transmission, or any other similar means of communication.
    (B) "Emergency" means the declaration of a state of emergency or disaster as provided in Code Section 38-3-51 or as presidentially declared.
    (C) "First informer broadcaster" means a broadcaster in Georgia who makes application to the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency for designation as a first informer broadcaster and who is granted such designation as a first informer broadcaster pursuant to rules and regulations promulgated by the director of emergency management and homeland security.
  (2) The unified incident command system and the Georgia Emergency Operations Plan shall, by July 1, 2016, establish planning for first informer broadcasters such that first informer broadcasters, to any extent practicable, may during an emergency:
    (A) Have access to areas affected by an emergency for the purpose of restoring, repairing, or resupplying any facility or equipment critical to the ability of a broadcaster to acquire, produce, or transmit emergency related programming, including but not limited to repairing and maintaining transmitters and generators and transporting fuel for generators;
    (B) Have access to the distribution of fuel, food, water, supplies, equipment, and any other materials necessary for maintaining or producing a broadcast or broadcasting signal; and
    (C) Not have vehicles, fuel, food, water, and any other materials seized or condemned that are essential for maintaining or producing a broadcast or broadcasting signal.
  (3) The Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency may develop or adopt courses of instruction for use in training personnel of first informer broadcasters on personal safety and navigation in an area affected by an emergency. The requirements of any such training shall be established pursuant to rules and regulations promulgated by the director of emergency management and homeland security. The costs of any such training shall be paid by the first informer broadcasters participating in the training.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 335,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 614,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 38, eff. 5/1/2012.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 579, § 3, eff. 7/1/2004.
