# § 38-3-152. Creation and operation of building mapping information system; availability to government agencies; rules and regulations; federal funding sources; exemption of information from public disclosure; recommendations for training guidelines; limitations

(a) Subject to availability of funds for such purposes, the agency may be authorized to create and operate a building mapping information system and may make grants to local governments for purposes of this article. Once the building mapping information system is operational, the agency shall make the building mapping information available electronically to all state, local, and federal public safety agencies.
(b) Once the building mapping information system is operational, it shall be within the discretion of state and local agencies to determine which government owned or leased buildings, if any, should be mapped, with special consideration given to schools, courthouses, and larger public structures utilized by large numbers of employees or private citizens. Nothing in this article shall require any state or local agency to map any building.
(c) State and local agencies electing to participate in the building mapping information system once such system is operational shall forward to the agency the building mapping information as provided in subsection (d) of this Code section. Any private entity or department or agency of the federal government that desires to participate in such system may also voluntarily forward its building mapping information to the agency. The agency may refuse any information that does not comply with the agency's specifications and requirements.
(d) The agency shall be authorized to develop rules and regulations for the purpose of implementing the provisions of this Code section. Such rules and regulations shall specify:
  (1) The type of information to be included in the building mapping information system which shall at a minimum include floor plans, fire protection information, evacuation plans, utility information, known hazards, and text and digital images showing emergency personnel contact information;
  (2) The building mapping software standards that shall be utilized by all entities participating in the building mapping information system; and
  (3) Security procedures to ensure that the information shall only be made available to the government entity that either owns or operates the building or is responding to an emergency incident at the building.
(e) The agency may be authorized to pursue federal funds or other sources of funding for the creation and operation of the building mapping information system and shall be further authorized to seek or assist state and local agencies in obtaining grants or donations for the mapping of government owned or leased buildings.
(f) Information provided to the agency under this article shall be exempt from public disclosure to the extent provided in paragraph (31) of subsection (a) of Code Section 50-18-72.
(g) The agency may recommend training guidelines regarding use of the building mapping information system for law enforcement officers, firefighters, and other authorized emergency first responders.
(h) Nothing in this Code section supersedes the authority of state departments and agencies and local governments to control and maintain access to information within their independent systems.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 605,§ 10, eff. 4/17/2012.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 560,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
