# § 38-3-181. Definitions

(1) "Authority" means the Georgia Emergency Communications Authority established pursuant to Code Section 38-3-182.
(2) "Board of directors" or "board" means the governing body of the authority.
(2.1) "Emergency medical dispatch" means the management of requests for emergency medical assistance by utilizing a system of:
  (A) A tiered response or priority dispatching of emergency medical resources based on the level of medical assistance appropriate for the victim; and
  (B) Prearrival first aid or other medical instructions given by trained telecommunicators responsible for receiving 9-1-1 calls and dispatching public safety agencies.
(3) "Emergency 9-1-1 system" or "9-1-1 system" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 46-5-122.
(4) "Enhanced ZIP Code" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 46-5-122.
(5) "Local government" means a county, municipality, regional authority, or consolidated government in this state that operates or contracts for the operation of a public safety answering point and has adopted a resolution or ordinance pursuant to Code Section 46-5-133 to impose 9-1-1 charges under Code Section 46-5-134.
(6) "Next Generation 9-1-1" or "NG911" is a secure, nationwide, interoperable, standards-based, all Internet protocol emergency communications infrastructure enabling end-to-end transmission of all types of data, including, but not limited to, voice and multimedia communications from the public to a public safety answering point.
(7) "9-1-1 charge" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 46-5-122.
(8) "Public safety answering point" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 46-5-122.
(9) "Service supplier" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 46-5-122.
(10) "Telephone subscriber" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 46-5-122.
(11) "Wireless enhanced 9-1-1 charge" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 46-5-122.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 800,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 436,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2018.
