# § 38-3-141. Definitions

(1) "Badge" means any official badge, identification card, or security pass used by members of the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, either in the past or currently.
(2) "Director" means the director of the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency.
(3) "Emblem" means any official patch or other emblem worn currently or formerly or used by the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency to identify the agency, a division of the agency, or employees of the agency.
(4) "Person" means any person, corporation, organization, or political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(5) "Seal" means any official symbol, mark, or abbreviation which represents and is used, currently or in the past, by the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency or any other division or operation under the command of the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency to identify the agency, a division of the agency, or employees of the agency.
(6) "Willful violator" means any person who knowingly violates the provisions of this article. Any person who violates this article after being advised in writing by the director that such person's activity is in violation of this article shall be considered a willful violator and shall be considered in willful violation of this article. Any person whose agent or representative is a willful violator and who has knowledge of the violation by the agent or representative shall also be considered a willful violator and in willful violation of this article unless, upon learning of the violation, he or she immediately terminates the agency or other relationship with such violator.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 335,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 556,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2008.
