# § 38-3-167. Limitation on services provided

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, a volunteer health practitioner shall adhere to the scope of practice for a similarly licensed volunteer health practitioner established by the licensing provisions, practice acts, or other laws of this state.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this article, this article shall not authorize a volunteer health practitioner to provide services that are outside such volunteer health practitioner's scope of practice, even if a similarly licensed volunteer health practitioner in this state would be permitted to provide such services.
(c) A host entity may restrict the health services or veterinary services that a volunteer health practitioner may provide pursuant to this article.
(d) A volunteer health practitioner shall not be considered to be engaging in unauthorized practice unless such volunteer health practitioner has reason to know of any limitation, modification, or restriction under this Code section or that a similarly licensed volunteer health practitioner in this state would not be permitted to provide such services. A volunteer health practitioner has reason to know of a limitation, modification, or restriction under this Code section or that a similarly licensed volunteer health practitioner in this state would not be permitted to provide a service if:
  (1) The volunteer health practitioner knows the limitation, modification, or restriction exists or that a similarly licensed volunteer health practitioner in this state would not be permitted to provide such service; or
  (2) From all the facts and circumstances known to the volunteer health practitioner at the relevant time, a reasonable person would conclude that the limitation, modification, or restriction exists or that a similarly licensed volunteer health practitioner in this state would not be permitted to provide such service.
(e) In addition to the authority granted by the laws of this state other than this article to regulate the conduct of health practitioners, a licensing board or other disciplinary authority in this state:
  (1) May impose administrative sanctions upon a health practitioner licensed in this state for conduct outside of this state in response to an out-of-state emergency;
  (2) May impose administrative sanctions upon a health practitioner not licensed in this state for conduct in this state in response to an in-state emergency; and
  (3) Shall report any administrative sanctions imposed upon a health practitioner licensed in another state to the appropriate licensing board or other disciplinary authority in any other state in which such health practitioner is known to be licensed.
(f) In determining whether to impose administrative sanctions under subsection (e) of this Code section, a licensing board or other disciplinary authority shall consider the circumstances in which the conduct took place, including any exigent circumstances, and the health practitioner's scope of practice, education, training, experience, and specialized skill.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 403,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
