# § 38-3-22.1. Safety plan addressing threat of terrorism required of state agencies or authorities; exemptions; training and technical assistance; confidentiality of plans and related documentation

(a) Every state agency or authority, except those exempted in subsection (b) of this Code section, shall prepare an agency safety plan to address the threat of terrorism, to respond effectively to such incidents, and to provide a safe environment for state personnel and for those citizens conducting business with state agencies. In addition to acts of terrorism, such plan shall also address preparedness for natural disasters, hazardous materials or radiological accidents, and acts of violence. The safety plans of agencies and authorities shall be prepared with input from the appropriate supervisors and rank-and-file employees and local law enforcement, fire service, public safety, and emergency management agencies. Such plans shall be reviewed internally and, if necessary, updated annually. Such plans shall be submitted to the local emergency management agency.
(b) The Department of Public Safety, the Department of Corrections, and any other state agency which operates secured facilities shall be exempt from the requirements of subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Subject to the availability of funds for such purpose, the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency shall provide training and technical assistance to agencies and authorities and may provide such training and technical assistance to local units of government and to critical facilities operated by the private sector. Such training and technical assistance shall include, but not be limited to, crisis response team development, site surveys and safety audits, crisis management planning, exercise design, safe school planning, emergency operations planning, search and seizure, bomb threat management, and model safety plans.
(d) The following records shall not be subject to public inspection or disclosure under Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50:
  (1) Site surveys, safety audits, and vulnerability assessments performed pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section; and
  (2) Any other record produced pursuant to this Code section the disclosure of which would, in the determination of the director of the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, endanger the life or physical safety of any person or persons or the physical safety of any public property.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 335,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 579, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
