# § 38-3-93. Authorization for certain employees of state agencies to be granted leave from work with pay in order to participate in specialized disaster relief services

(a) An employee of a state agency who is a certified disaster service volunteer of the American Red Cross may be granted leave from his or her work with pay for no more than 15 workdays in any 12 month period to participate in specialized disaster relief services for the American Red Cross, upon the request of the American Red Cross for the services of that employee and upon the approval of that employee's agency and coordinated through the director of emergency management, without loss of seniority, pay, vacation time, compensatory time, sick time, or earned overtime accumulation. The state agency shall compensate an employee granted leave under this Code section at his or her regular rate of pay for those regular hours during which the employee is absent from work. Leave under this article shall be granted only for the services related to a disaster occurring within this state or in a contiguous state which has a reciprocal statutory provision.
(b) An employee of a state agency who is a certified disaster service volunteer of the Civil Air Patrol Auxiliary of the United States Air Force may be granted leave from his or her work with pay for no more than 15 workdays in any 12 month period to participate in specialized emergency services operations for the Civil Air Patrol Auxiliary of the United States Air Force, upon the request of the Civil Air Patrol Auxiliary of the United States Air Force after being activated by a county emergency management agency, the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, or a comparable federal agency for the services of that employee and upon the approval of that employee's agency and coordinated through the director of emergency management, without loss of seniority, pay, vacation time, compensatory time, sick time, or earned overtime accumulation. This provision applies only to service rendered on a numbered mission in support of a county emergency management agency, the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, or a comparable federal agency. The state agency shall compensate an employee granted leave under this Code section at his or her regular rate of pay for those regular hours during which the employee is absent from work. Leave under this article shall be granted only for the services related to a disaster occurring within this state or in a contiguous state which has a reciprocal statutory provision.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 575,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
