# § 38-3-185. Remission of 9-1-1 and enhanced 9-1-1 charges

(a) Beginning January 1, 2019, all 9-1-1 charges and all wireless enhanced 9-1-1 charges imposed by the governing authority of a local government pursuant to Code Section 46-5-133 and collected by a service supplier pursuant to Code Sections 46-5-134 and 46-5-134.1 shall be remitted monthly by each service supplier to the authority not later than the twentieth day of the month following the month in which they are collected. Any charges not remitted in a timely manner shall accrue interest at the rate specified in Code Section 48-2-40, until the date they are paid.
(b)
  (1) Each service supplier collecting and remitting 9-1-1 and wireless enhanced 9-1-1 charges to the authority pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall submit with the remitted charges a report identifying the amount of the charges being collected and remitted from telephone subscribers attributable to each county or municipality that operates a public safety answering point, including counties and municipalities that operate multijurisdictional or regional 9-1-1 systems or have created a joint authority pursuant to Code Section 46-5-138.
  (2) For purposes of the monthly report required in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the service supplier shall attempt to utilize enhanced ZIP Codes. If an enhanced ZIP Code designation is not available for an address or if the service supplier is unable to determine the applicable enhanced ZIP Code designation after exercising due diligence to determine the designation, the service supplier may apply the five-digit ZIP Code to that address. For purposes of this subsection, there is a rebuttable presumption that a service supplier has exercised due diligence if the service supplier has attempted to determine the enhanced ZIP Code designation by utilizing software used by the Streamlined Sales Tax Governing Board pursuant to Code Section 48-8-70.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 436,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2018.
