# § 43-4A-12. Surety bond requirement; suspension for failure to maintain

(a) An athlete agent shall deposit or have deposited with the Secretary of State, prior to the issuance of a registration or renewal of a registration, a surety bond in the penal sum of not less than $10,000.00, as established by the Secretary of State. Such surety bond shall be executed in the favor of the state with a surety company authorized to do business in this state and conditioned to pay damages in the amount of such bond to any athletic department aggrieved by any act of the principal named in such bond, which act is in violation of Code Section 43-4A-13 or would be grounds for revocation of a license under this chapter. If more than one athletic department suffers damages by the actions of an athlete agent, each athletic department shall receive a pro rata share of the amount of the bond based on the entitlement of one share of such amount of the bond for each student athlete who loses his or her eligibility to participate in intercollegiate sports contests as a member of a sports team at an institution of higher education as a result of actions of the athlete agent.
(b) If any registrant fails to maintain such bond so as to comply with the provisions of this Code section, the registration issued to the athlete agent shall be suspended until such time as a new bond is obtained. An athlete agent whose registration is suspended pursuant to this Code section shall not carry on any business as an athlete agent during the period of suspension.

## History

Renumbered and amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 437,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 347, § 14, eff. 6/4/2003.
