# § 12-2-23. Officers; meetings; quorum; compensation of members; reimbursement of members for expenses

(a) The members of the Board of Natural Resources shall elect a chairman, a vice-chairman, and a secretary. These officers shall be elected for a period of one year and shall be elected annually at the January meeting.
(b) The board shall hold regular meetings at least once every 60 days and may not hold more than six special or called meetings in any one calendar year. A special or called meeting may be called by the chairman or a majority of the members of the board. The board shall meet at such times and at such designated places in this state as it may determine.
(c) Eight members of the board shall constitute a quorum.
(d) The members, including the chairperson, shall each receive the per diem prescribed in Code Section 45-7-21 for each day of actual attendance at meetings of the board, or any committee thereof, and shall be reimbursed for travel expenses, lodging, meals, and transportation at the same rates established in the travel regulations for state employees. The members, including the chairperson, while on committee assignment approved in advance by the chairperson, shall receive the same per diem and reimbursement of travel expenses as those authorized for attendance at meetings. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code section, the total per diem compensation paid in any year to any member of the board shall not exceed $3,000.00. Such per diem and actual expense shall be paid from funds of the department.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 182,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
