# § 31-46-3. Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank for postnatal tissue and fluid; creation; donations and information concerning donations

(a) Not later than June 30, 2008, the Georgia Commission for Saving the Cure, as created in Code Section 31-46-4, shall establish a network of postnatal tissue and fluid banks in partnership with one or more public or private colleges or universities, public or private hospitals, nonprofit organizations, or private firms in this state for the purpose of collecting and storing postnatal tissue and fluid. The bank network, which shall be known as the Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank, shall make such tissue and fluid available for medical research and treatment in accordance with this chapter.
(b) The Georgia Commission for Saving the Cure shall develop a program to educate pregnant patients with respect to the banking of postnatal tissue and fluid. The program shall include:
  (1) Notice of the existence of the Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank;
  (2) An explanation of the difference between public and private banking programs;
  (3) The medical process involved in the collection and storage of postnatal tissue and fluid;
  (4) The current and potential future medical uses of stored postnatal tissue and fluid;
  (5) The benefits and risks involved in the banking of postnatal tissue and fluid; and
  (6) The availability and cost of storing postnatal tissue and fluid in public and private umbilical cord blood banks.
(c) Beginning June 30, 2009, all physicians and hospitals in this state shall inform pregnant patients of the full range of options for donation of postnatal tissue and fluids no later than 30 days from the commencement of the patient's third trimester of pregnancy or at the first consultation between the attending physician or the hospital, whichever is later; provided, however, that this subsection shall not be construed to require the participation of any physician who objects to the transfusion or transplantation of blood on the basis of bona fide religious beliefs.
(d) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit a person from donating postnatal tissue or fluid to a private blood and tissue bank or storing postnatal tissue or fluid with a private blood and tissue bank.
(e) Any college or university, hospital, nonprofit organization, or private firm participating in the Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank shall have or be subject to an institutional review board which shall be available on an ongoing basis to review the research procedures and conduct of any person desiring to conduct research with postnatal tissue and fluid from the bank. The institutional review board shall establish procedures to protect and ensure the privacy rights of postnatal tissue and fluid donors consistent with applicable federal guidelines.

## History

Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 247,§ 2, eff. 5/24/2007.
