# § 31-46-4. Georgia Commission for Saving the Cure; creation; membership; appointment; terms of office; duties

(a) There is created the Georgia Commission for Saving the Cure which shall consist of 15 members appointed as provided in this Code section. The commission shall be assigned to the Department of Public Health for administrative purposes only, as prescribed in Code Section 50-4-3.
(b) Seven members shall be appointed by the Governor. The Governor shall appoint four members to serve initial terms of three years and three members to serve initial terms of two years. Thereafter, successors to such initial appointees shall serve terms of three years. The Governor shall designate one of the persons so appointed to be the chairperson of the commission. If the chief executive officer of the Georgia Research Alliance is not appointed by the Governor or any other appointing authority to serve on the commission, he or she shall serve as an advisory member.
(c) Four members shall be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor or, if the Lieutenant Governor belongs to a political party other than the political party to which a majority of the members of the Senate belong, by the Senate Committee on Assignments. Of these four members, there shall be at least one of each of the following: a physician licensed to practice medicine in this state; a recognized medical ethicist with an accredited degree in medicine, medical ethics, or theology; a medical researcher in permitted stem cell research; and an attorney with experience in health policy law. The Lieutenant Governor or Senate Committee on Assignments shall appoint two members to serve initial terms of three years and two members to serve initial terms of two years. Thereafter, successors to such initial appointees shall serve terms of three years.
(d) Four members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Of these four members, there shall be at least one of each of the following: a physician licensed to practice medicine in this state; a recognized medical ethicist with an accredited degree in medicine, medical ethics, or theology; a medical researcher in permitted stem cell research; and an attorney with experience in health policy law. The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint two members to serve initial terms of three years and two members to serve initial terms of two years. Thereafter, successors to such initial appointees shall serve terms of three years.
(e) Members of the commission shall be eligible to succeed themselves. The initial terms of office shall begin on July 1, 2007. Appointments shall be made by the respective appointing authorities no later than June 15, 2007. Thereafter, appointments of successors shall be made by the respective appointing authority no later than June 1 of the year in which the member's term of office expires. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by the respective appointing authority.
(f) The commission shall meet at least four times per year at the call of the chairperson or upon the request of at least seven of its members.
(g) The commission shall have the following duties and responsibilities:
  (1) To investigate the implementation of this chapter and to recommend any improvements to the General Assembly;
  (2) To make available to the public the records of all meetings of the commission and of all business transacted by the commission;
  (3) To oversee the operations of the Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank established in Code Section 31-46-3, including approving all fees established to cover administration, collection, and storage costs;
  (4) To undertake the Saving the Cure initiative by promoting awareness of the Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank and encouraging donation of postnatal tissue and fluid to the bank;
  (5) To ensure the privacy of persons who donate postnatal tissue and fluid to the Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 31-46-3 consistent with applicable federal guidelines;
  (6) To develop a plan for making postnatal tissue and fluid collected under the Saving the Cure initiative available for medical research and treatment and to ensure compliance with all relevant national practice and quality standards relating to such use;
  (7) To develop a plan for private storage of postnatal tissue and fluid for medical treatment or to make potential donors aware of private storage options for said tissue and fluid as deemed in the public interest;
  (8) To participate in the National Cord Blood Program and to register postnatal tissue and fluid collected with registries operating in connection with the program;
  (9) To make grants and enter into agreements to support permitted stem cell research with immediate and clinical medical applications;
  (10) To employ such staff and to enter into such contracts as may be necessary to fulfill its duties and responsibilities under this chapter subject to funding by the General Assembly; and
  (11) To report annually to the General Assembly in December of each year concerning the activities of the commission with recommendations for any legislative changes or funding necessary or desirable to fulfill the goals of this chapter.
(h) The commission shall provide for protection from disclosure of the identity of persons making donations to the Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 31-46-3.
(i) The commission may request additional funding from any additional source including, but not limited to, federal and private grants.
(j) The commission may establish a separate not for profit organization or foundation for the purposes of supporting the Newborn Umbilical Cord Blood Bank established pursuant to Code Section 31-46-3.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 247,§ 2, eff. 5/24/2007.
