# § 5-5-42. Form for motion for new trial

(a) The form for motion for new trial in civil cases prescribed in subsection (b) of this Code section shall be sufficient, but any other form substantially complying therewith shall also be sufficient.
(b) Form for motion for new trial in civil cases: IN THE __________________ COURT OF __________________ COUNTYSTATE OF GEORGIA___________)Plaintiff))v.)Civil Action)File no.______________________)Defendant))MOTION FOR NEW TRIALDefendant moves the court to set aside the verdict returned herein on ______ (date)______, ______, and the judgment entered thereon on ______ (date) ______, ______, and to grant a new trial on the following grounds:
  (1) The verdict is contrary to law.
  (2) The verdict is contrary to the evidence.
  (3) The verdict is strongly against the weight of the evidence.
  (4) The court erred in permitting witness Smith to testify as follows: __________________.
  (5) The court erred in failing to charge the jury on unavoidable accident as requested in writing by defendant.
  (6) The court erred in charging the jury as follows: __________________. Dated: __________________.__________________Attorney for defendant__________________Address(Here set forth rule nisi and certificate of service.)
(c) The form for motion for new trial in criminal cases in subsection (d) of this Code section is declared to be sufficient but any other form substantially complying therewith shall also be sufficient.
(d) Form for motion for new trial in criminal cases: IN THE __________________ COURT OF __________________ COUNTYSTATE OF GEORGIA__________________)The State))v.)Indictment)Accusation__________________)Defendant)File no. __________________MOTION FOR NEW TRIALDefendant moves the court to set aside the verdict returned herein on ______ (date) ______, ______, and the sentence entered thereon on ______ (date)______, ______, and to grant a new trial on the following grounds:
  (1) The defendant should be acquitted and discharged due to the state's failure to prove guilt beyond a reasonable doubt.
  (2) Although the state proved the defendant's guilt beyond a reasonable doubt, the evidence was sufficiently close to warrant the trial judge to exercise his discretion to grant the defendant a retrial.
  (3) The court committed an error of law warranting a new trial. Dated: __________________.__________________Attorney for defendant__________________Address(Here set forth rule nisi and certificate of service.)
