# § 5-5-40. Time of motion for new trial generally; amendments; extension of time for filing transcript; time of hearing; priority to cases in which death penalty imposed; appeal not limited to grounds urged; new trial on court's own motion

(a) All motions for new trial, except in extraordinary cases, shall be made within 30 days of the entry of the judgment on the verdict or entry of the judgment where the case was tried without a jury.
(b) The motion may be amended any time on or before the ruling thereon.
(c) Where the grounds of the motion require consideration of the transcript of evidence or proceedings, the court may in its discretion grant an extension of time, except in cases where the death penalty is imposed, for the preparation and filing of the transcript, which may be done any time on or before the hearing; or the court may in its discretion hear and determine the motion before the transcript of evidence and proceedings is prepared and filed.
(d) The grounds of the motion need not be approved by the court.
(e) The motion may be heard at any time; but, where it is not heard at the time specified in the order, it shall stand for hearing at such time as the court by order at any time may prescribe, unless sooner disposed of.
(f) Motions for new trial in cases in which the death penalty is imposed shall be given priority.
(g) On appeal, a party shall not be limited to the grounds urged in the motion or any amendment thereof.
(h) The court also shall be empowered to grant a new trial on its own motion within 30 days from entry of the judgment, except in criminal cases where the defendant was acquitted.
