# § 19-9-90. Finding of immediate physical custody; awarding of fees, costs, and expenses; drawing adverse inference from refusal to testify; spousal relationship irrelevant

(a) Unless the court issues a temporary emergency order pursuant to Code Section 19-9-64, upon a finding that a petitioner is entitled to immediate physical custody of the child, the court shall order that the petitioner may take immediate physical custody of the child unless the respondent establishes that:
  (1) The child custody determination has not been registered and confirmed under Code Section 19-9-85 and that:
    (A) The issuing court did not have jurisdiction under Part 2 of this article;
    (B) The child custody determination for which enforcement is sought has been vacated, stayed, or modified by a court of a state having jurisdiction to do so under Part 2 of this article; or
    (C) The respondent was entitled to notice, but notice was not given in accordance with the standards of Code Section 19-9-47, in the proceedings before the court that issued the order for which enforcement is sought; or
  (2) The child custody determination for which enforcement is sought was registered and confirmed under Code Section 19-9-85 but has been vacated, stayed, or modified by a court of a state having jurisdiction to do so under Part 2 of this article.
(b) The court shall award the fees, costs, and expenses authorized under Code Section 19-9-92 and may grant additional relief, including a request for the assistance of law enforcement officials, and set a further hearing to determine whether additional relief is appropriate.
(c) If a party called to testify refuses to answer on the ground that the testimony may be self-incriminating, the court may draw an adverse inference from the refusal.
(d) A privilege against disclosure of communications between spouses and a defense of immunity based on the relationship of husband and wife or parent and child may not be invoked in a proceeding under this part.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 28, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
