# § 19-9-88. Verification and petition for enforcement requirements; sealing; appearance; expenses

(a) A petition under this part must be verified. Certified copies of all orders sought to be enforced and of any order confirming registration must be attached to the petition. A copy of a certified copy of an order may be attached instead of the original.
(b) A petition for enforcement of a child custody determination must state:
  (1) Whether the court that issued the determination identified the jurisdictional basis it relied upon in exercising jurisdiction and, if so, what the basis was;
  (2) Whether the determination for which enforcement is sought has been vacated, stayed, or modified by a court whose decision must be enforced under this article and, if so, identify the court, the case number, and the nature of the proceeding;
  (3) Whether any proceeding has been commenced that could affect the current proceeding, including proceedings relating to family violence, protective orders, termination of parental rights, and adoptions and, if so, identify the court, the case number, and the nature of the proceeding;
  (4) The present physical address of the child and the respondent, if known, except in cases involving a parent who has been the subject of a finding of family violence by a court of this state or another state;
  (5) Whether relief in addition to the immediate physical custody of the child and attorney's fees is sought, including a request for assistance from law enforcement officials and, if so, the relief sought; and
  (6) If the child custody determination has been registered and confirmed under Code Section 19-9-85, the date and place of registration.
(c) If a party alleges in an affidavit or pleading under oath that the health, safety, or liberty of a party or child would be jeopardized by disclosure of information required by this Code section, the information must be sealed and may not be disclosed to the other party or the public unless the court orders the disclosure to be made after a hearing in which the court takes into consideration the health, safety, or liberty of the party or child and determines that the disclosure is in the interest of justice.
(d) Upon the filing of a petition, the court shall issue an order directing the respondent to appear in person with or without the child at a hearing and may enter any order necessary to ensure the safety of the parties and the child. The hearing must be held on the next judicial day after service of the order unless that date is impossible. In that event, the court shall hold the hearing on the first judicial day possible. The court may extend the date of hearing at the request of the petitioner.
(e) An order issued under subsection (d) of this Code section must state the time and place of the hearing and advise the respondent that at the hearing the court will order that the petitioner may take immediate physical custody of the child and the payment of fees, costs, and expenses under Code Section 19-9-92, and may schedule a hearing to determine whether further relief is appropriate, unless the respondent appears and establishes that:
  (1) The child custody determination has not been registered and confirmed under Code Section 19-9-85 and that:
    (A) The issuing court did not have jurisdiction under Part 2 of this article;
    (B) The child custody determination for which enforcement is sought has been vacated, stayed, or modified by a court having jurisdiction to do so under Part 2 of this article;
    (C) The respondent was entitled to notice, but notice was not given in accordance with the standards of Code Section 19-9-47, in the proceedings before the court that issued the order for which enforcement is sought; or
  (2) The child custody determination for which enforcement is sought was registered and confirmed under Code Section 19-9-85, but has been vacated, stayed, or modified by a court of a state having jurisdiction to do so under Part 2 of this article.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 28, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
