# § 19-9-123. Reporting requirement from nonprofit entities or faith based organizations; departmental responsibilities and liabilities; regulation

(a) A nonprofit entity or faith based organization that is not licensed by the department but is providing services under this article shall annually provide the department with the following information:
  (1) Its legal name, address, telephone number, e-mail address, and any other contact information;
  (2) The name of its director;
  (3) The names and addresses of the officers and members of its governing body;
  (4) The total number of approved volunteer families with which it works; and
  (5) The total number of children served in the previous calendar year.
(b) The department shall maintain a list of nonprofit entities or faith based organizations for which it has been provided the information required by subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) The department may refer an individual who is seeking to execute a power of attorney under this article to a nonprofit entity or faith based organization if the information required by subsection (a) of this Code section has been provided. The department shall not be liable for civil damages or be subject to any claim, demand, cause of action, or proceeding of any nature as a result of referring such individual to a nonprofit entity or faith based organization.
(d) The department shall promulgate rules and regulations in order to implement this Code section.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 285,§ 2-2, eff. 9/1/2018.
