# § 19-9-68. Wrongfully obtained jurisdiction; actions to prevent repetition of unjustifiable conduct; expenses

(a) Except as otherwise provided in Code Section 19-9-64 or by any other law of this state, if a court of this state has jurisdiction under this article because a person seeking to invoke its jurisdiction has engaged in unjustifiable conduct, the court shall decline to exercise its jurisdiction unless:
  (1) The parents and all persons acting as parents have acquiesced in the exercise of jurisdiction;
  (2) A court of the state otherwise having jurisdiction under Code Sections 19-9-61 through 19-9-63 determines that this state is a more appropriate forum under Code Section 19-9-67; or
  (3) No court of any other state would have jurisdiction under the criteria specified in Code Sections 19-9-61 through 19-9-63.
(b) If a court of this state declines to exercise its jurisdiction pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, it may fashion an appropriate remedy to ensure the safety of the child and prevent a repetition of the unjustifiable conduct, including staying the proceeding until a child custody proceeding is commenced in a court having jurisdiction under Code Sections 19-9-61 through 19-9-63.
(c) If a court dismisses a petition or stays a proceeding because it declines to exercise its jurisdiction pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, it shall assess against the party seeking to invoke its jurisdiction necessary and reasonable expenses including costs, communication expenses, attorney's fees, investigative fees, expenses for witnesses, travel expenses, and child care during the course of the proceedings, unless the party from whom fees are sought establishes that the assessment would be clearly inappropriate. The court may not assess fees, costs, or expenses against this state unless authorized by law other than this article.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 28, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
