# § 19-9-130. Authority of agent; revocation, termination, or resignation of agent exercising power of attorney; right of parent to access records while power of attorney in effect

(a)
  (1) An agent shall have the authority to act on behalf of the child on a continuous basis, without compensation:
    (A) For the duration of the power of attorney so long as the duration does not exceed one year or the time period authorized in Code Section 19-9-132; or
    (B) Until the individual who executed the power of attorney revokes the power of attorney in writing and provides notice of the revocation to the agent by certified mail, return receipt requested, or statutory overnight delivery. Upon receipt of such revocation, the agent shall cease to act as agent.
  (2) The individual revoking the power of attorney shall send a copy of the revocation of the power of attorney to the agent within five days of executing such revocation. If an individual revokes a power of attorney, the child shall be returned to the custody of such individual who executed the power of attorney within 48 hours of receiving such revocation.
  (3) The revoking individual shall notify schools, health care providers, the probate court where the power of attorney is filed, and others known to the revoking individual to have relied upon such power of attorney within 48 hours of submitting such resignation to the agent.
(b) A power of attorney executed under this article may be terminated by an order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c) Upon receipt of a revocation of a power of attorney, an agent shall notify schools, health care providers, and others known to the agent to have relied upon such power of attorney within 48 hours of receiving such revocation.
(d) An agent may resign by notifying the individual who appointed the agent in writing by certified mail, return receipt requested, or statutory overnight delivery and he or she shall notify schools, health care providers, the probate court where the power of attorney is filed, and others known to the agent to have relied upon such power of attorney within 48 hours of submitting such notification.
(e) Upon the death of an individual who executed a power of attorney, the agent shall notify the surviving parent of the child, if known, as soon as practicable.
(f) The authority to designate an agent to act on behalf of a child shall be in addition to any other lawful action a parent may take for the benefit of such child.
(g) A parent shall continue to have the right to receive medical, dental, mental health, and educational records pertaining to his or her child, even when a power of attorney has been executed under this article.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 285,§ 2-2, eff. 9/1/2018.
