# § 19-9-6. Definitions

(1) "Armed forces" means the national guard and the reserve components of the armed forces, the United States army, navy, marine corps, space force, coast guard, and air force.
(2) "Deploy" or "deployment" means military service in compliance with the military orders received by a member of the armed forces to report for combat operations, contingency operations, peacekeeping operations, a remote tour of duty, temporary duty, or other such military service for which a parent is required to report unaccompanied by family members. Deployment shall include the period during which a military parent remains subject to deployment orders and remains deployed on account of sickness, wounds, leave, or other lawful cause. Such term shall include mobilization.
(3) "Deploying parent" or "deployed parent" means a military parent who has been formally notified by military leadership that he or she will deploy or mobilize or who is currently deployed or mobilized.
(4) "Joint custody" means joint legal custody, joint physical custody, or both joint legal custody and joint physical custody. In making an order for joint custody, the judge may order joint legal custody without ordering joint physical custody.
(5) "Joint legal custody" means both parents have equal rights and responsibilities for major decisions concerning the child, including the child's education, health care, extracurricular activities, and religious training; provided, however, that the judge may designate one parent to have sole power to make certain decisions while both parents retain equal rights and responsibilities for other decisions.
(6) "Joint physical custody" means that physical custody is shared by the parents in such a way as to assure the child of substantially equal time and contact with both parents.
(7) "Military family care plan" means a plan that is periodically reviewed by a military parent's commander that provides for care of a military parent's child whenever his or her military duties prevent such parent from providing care to his or her child and ensures that a military parent has made adequate and reasonable arrangements to provide for the needs and supervision of his or her child whenever a nondeploying parent is unable or unavailable to provide care in the military parent's absence.
(8) "Military parent" means a member of the armed forces who is a legal parent, adoptive parent, or guardian of a child under the age of 18, whose parental rights are established either by operation of law or the process of legitimation, and who has not had his or her parental rights terminated by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(9) "Mobilization" or "mobilize" means the call-up of the national guard and the reserve components of the armed forces to extended active duty service. Such term shall not include National Guard or Reserves component annual training, inactive duty days, drill weekends, or state active duty performed within the boundaries of this state.
(10) "Nondeploying parent" means:
  (A) A parent who is not a member of the armed forces; or
  (B) A military parent who is currently not also a deploying parent.
(11) "Sole custody" means a person, including, but not limited to, a parent, has been awarded permanent custody of a child by a court order. Unless otherwise provided by court order, the person awarded sole custody of a child shall have the rights and responsibilities for major decisions concerning the child, including the child's education, health care, extracurricular activities, and religious training, and the noncustodial parent shall have the right to visitation or parenting time. A person who has not been awarded custody of a child by court order shall not be considered as the sole legal custodian while exercising visitation rights or parenting time.
(12) "State active duty" means the call-up by a governor for the performance of any military duty while serving within the boundaries of that state.
(13) "Temporary duty" means the assignment of a military parent to a geographic location outside of this state for a limited period of time to accomplish training or to assist in the performance of a military mission.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 389,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 19, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 68,§ 4, eff. 5/11/2011.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 264,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2008.
