# § 31-11-101. Creation of Georgia Trauma Care Network Commission; composition; membership; meetings; vacancies; compensation

(a) There is created the Georgia Trauma Care Network Commission which is assigned to the Department of Public Health for administrative purposes only, as prescribed in Code Section 50-4-3. The commission shall consist of nine members who shall be appointed as provided in this Code section. Five members shall be appointed by the Governor. The Governor shall include among his or her appointees a physician who is actively involved in providing emergency trauma care, a representative of a hospital that is a designated trauma center, and a representative of a state 9-1-1 zone licensed emergency medical services provider. Two members shall be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor. Two members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives. In making the initial appointments, the Governor shall appoint three members for a term of four years and two members for a term of two years, the Lieutenant Governor shall appoint one member for a term of four years and one member for a term of two years, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint one member for a term of four years and one member for a term of two years. Thereafter, persons appointed to succeed the initial members shall serve four-year terms of office. The Governor shall appoint one of the members to serve as the chairperson of the commission.
(b) The commission shall meet upon the call of the chairperson or upon the request of three members. The commission shall organize itself as it deems appropriate and may elect additional officers from among its members.
(c) Any vacancy on the commission shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the original appointing authority.
(d) Members of the commission shall serve without compensation but shall receive the same expense allowance per day as that received by a member of the General Assembly for each day such member of the commission is in attendance at a meeting of such commission, plus either reimbursement for actual transportation costs while traveling by public carrier or the same mileage allowance for use of a personal car in connection with such attendance as members of the General Assembly receive. Such expense and travel allowance shall be paid in lieu of any per diem, allowance, or other remuneration now received by any such member for such attendance.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 14,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2007.
