# § 31-11-55.2. Administration of hydrocortisone sodium succinate intramuscularly by emergency medical services personnel; training; reporting; immunity

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Congenital adrenal hyperplasia" means the salt-wasting form of the classic type of congenital adrenal hyperplasia.
  (2) "Emergency medical services personnel" means any person who has been certified as an emergency medical technician, cardiac technician, or paramedic.
(b) Paramedics shall be authorized to administer hydrocortisone sodium succinate intramuscularly for the purpose of providing emergency care to a patient who:
  (1) Has congenital adrenal hyperplasia; or any adrenal insufficiency;
  (2) Is believed to be in adrenal crisis; and
  (3) Has on his or her person or in his or her belongings hydrocortisone sodium succinate in packaging that clearly states the appropriate dosage and has an unbroken seal.
(c) In order to ensure public health and safety:
  (1) All emergency medical services personnel shall obtain appropriate training on congenital adrenal hyperplasia, and all paramedics shall obtain appropriate training regarding administration of hydrocortisone sodium succinate as set forth in the rules and regulations of the Department of Public Health; and
  (2) Within a reasonable period of time, all paramedics who administer hydrocortisone sodium succinate shall make available a printed or electronically stored report to the licensed ambulance service which transports the patient.
(d) The immunity provided in Code Section 31-11-8 shall apply to any paramedic who in good faith renders emergency care pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 31, eff. 5/2/2022.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 146,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
