# § 31-11-115. Distribution of list of state identified stroke centers to emergency medical services providers; development of a model stroke triage assessment tool; assessment, treatment, and transport of stroke patients

(a) Beginning June 1, 2009, and each year thereafter, the department shall send a list of comprehensive, primary, remote treatment, and other level stroke centers identified pursuant to Code Section 31-11-113 to the medical director of each licensed emergency medical services provider in this state, shall maintain a copy of the list in the office designated with the department to oversee emergency medical services, and shall post a list of comprehensive, primary, remote treatment, and other level stroke centers on the department's website.
(b) The department shall adopt or develop a sample stroke triage assessment tool. The department shall post this sample assessment tool on its website and distribute a copy of the sample assessment tool to each licensed emergency medical services provider no later than December 31, 2008. Each licensed emergency medical services provider shall use a stroke triage assessment tool that is substantially similar to the sample stroke triage assessment tool provided by the department.
(c) The office designated within the department to oversee emergency medical services shall establish protocols related to the assessment, treatment, triage, and transport of stroke patients, including transport to the appropriate level stroke centers, by licensed emergency medical services providers in this state.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 459,§ 1, eff. 4/26/2016.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 772,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
