# § 31-11-3. Recommendations by local coordinating entity as to administration of EMSC Program; hearing and appeal

(a) The Board of Public Health shall have the authority on behalf of the state to designate and contract with a public or nonprofit local entity to coordinate and administer the EMSC Program for each health district designated by the Department of Public Health. The local coordinating entity thus designated shall be responsible for recommending to the board or its designee the manner in which the EMSC Program is to be conducted. In making its recommendations, the local coordinating entity shall give priority to making the EMSC Program function as efficiently and economically as possible. Each licensed ambulance provider in the health district shall have the opportunity to participate in the EMSC Program.
(b) The local coordinating entity shall request from each licensed ambulance provider in its health district a written description of the territory in which it can respond to emergency calls, based upon the provider's average response time from its base location within such territory; and such written description shall be due within ten days of the request by the local coordinating entity.
(c) After receipt of the written descriptions of territory in which the ambulance providers propose to respond to emergency calls, the local coordinating entity shall within ten days recommend in writing to the board or its designee the territories within the health district to be serviced by the ambulance providers; and at this same time the local coordinating entity shall also recommend the method for distributing emergency calls among the providers, based primarily on the considerations of economy, efficiency, and benefit to the public welfare. The recommendation of the local coordinating entity shall be forwarded immediately to the board or its designee for approval or modification of the territorial zones and method of distributing calls among ambulance providers participating in the EMSC Program in the health district.
(d) The board, or its designee, is empowered to conduct a hearing into the recommendations made by the local coordinating entity, and such hearing shall be conducted according to the procedures set forth in Code Section 31-5-2.
(e) The recommendations of the local coordinating entity shall not be modified unless the board or its designee shall find, after a hearing, that the determination of the district health director is not consistent with operation of the EMSC Program in an efficient, economical manner that benefits the public welfare. The decision of the board or its designee shall be rendered as soon as possible and shall be final and conclusive concerning the operation of the EMSC Program; and appeal from such decision shall be pursuant to Code Section 31-5-3.
(f) The local coordinating entity shall begin administering the EMSC Program in accord with the decision by the board or its designee immediately after the decision by the board or its designee regarding the approval or modification of the recommendations made by the local coordinating entity; and the EMSC Program shall be operated in such manner pending the resolution of any appeals filed pursuant to Code Section 31-5-3.
(g) This Code section shall not apply to air ambulances or air ambulance services.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-4, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-5, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 52, § 2, eff. 7/1/2003.
