# § 31-11-1. Findings; declaration of policy

(a) The General Assembly finds and determines:
  (1) That the furnishing of emergency medical services is a matter of substantial importance to the people of this state;
  (2) That the cost and quality of emergency medical services are matters within the public interest;
  (3) That it is highly desirable for the state to participate in emergency medical systems communications programs established pursuant to Public Law 93-154, entitled the Emergency Medical Services Systems Act of 1973;
  (4) That the administration of an emergency medical systems communications program should be the responsibility of the Department of Public Health, acting upon the recommendations of the local entity which coordinates the program; all ambulance services shall be a part of this system even if this system is the 9-1-1 emergency telephone number;
  (5) That an emergency medical systems communications program in a health district should be operated as economically and efficiently as possible to serve the public welfare and, to achieve this goal, should involve the designation of geographical territories to be serviced by participating ambulance providers and should involve an economic and efficient procedure to distribute emergency calls among participating ambulance providers serving the same health district; and
  (6) Any first responder falls under the department's rules and regulations governing ambulances and can transport only in life-threatening situations or by orders of a licensed physician or when a licensed ambulance cannot respond.
(b) The General Assembly therefore declares that, in the exercise of the sovereign powers of the state to safeguard and protect the public health and general well-being of its citizens, it is the public policy of this state to encourage, foster, and promote emergency medical systems communications programs and that such programs shall be accomplished in a manner that is coordinated, orderly, economical, and without unnecessary duplication of services and facilities.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 134,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2005.
