# § 31-11-33. Insurance coverage as condition of licensing

(a) Every ambulance operated on the streets, highways, and private access roads of this state by persons engaged in providing ambulance service shall have insurance coverage issued by an insurance company licensed to do business in this state providing at least the minimum coverage required for motor vehicles under Chapter 34 of Title 33; provided, however, in the case of ambulances operated by the state, the coverage required shall be the same coverage required for other state vehicles under Chapter 9 of Title 45. Every air ambulance operated by persons engaged in providing air ambulance service in this state shall have insurance coverage as described in Code Section 33-7-9.
(b) No ambulance shall be licensed nor shall any license be renewed unless the ambulance has insurance coverage in force as required by this Code section. A certificate of insurance shall be submitted to the license officer for approval prior to the issuance or renewal of each ambulance license. Satisfactory evidence that such insurance is at all times in force and effect shall be furnished to the license officer, in such form as he may specify, by all licensees required to provide such insurance under this Code section.
(c) This Code section shall apply to all ambulances, whether privately operated or operated by any political subdivision of the state or any municipality.
(d) This Code section shall not apply to first responders, which do not transport patients, operated by municipalities or counties that have not elected to waive their governmental immunity by purchasing vehicle liability insurance pursuant to Code Section 33-24-51.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 52, § 8, eff. 7/1/2003.
