# § 31-11-100. Definitions

(1) "Burn trauma center" means a facility that has been designated by the Department of Public Health as a burn center and that admits at least 300 patients annually with the burn specific principal diagnosis codes as published by the International Classification of Diseases.
(2) "Trauma burn patient" means a patient admitted to a burn trauma center with a burn specific principal diagnosis code as published by the International Classification of Diseases who has at least one of the following injuries or complications based on criteria developed by the American Burn Association:
  (A) Partial-thickness burns over at least 10 percent of the total body surface area;
  (B) Burns that involve the face, hands, feet, genitalia, perineum, or major joints;
  (C) Third-degree burns in any age group;
  (D) Chemical burns;
  (E) An inhalation injury;
  (F) A burn injury and preexisting medical disorder that could complicate management, prolong recovery, or affect mortality;
  (G) Burns and concomitant trauma, such as fractures, in which the burn injury poses the greatest risk of morbidity or mortality; or
  (H) Burn injury patients who require special social, emotional, or rehabilitative intervention.
(3) "Trauma center" means a facility designated by the Department of Public Health as a Level I, II, III, or IV or burn trauma center. However, a burn trauma center shall not be considered or treated as a trauma center for purposes of certificate of need requirements under state law or regulations, including exceptions to need and adverse impact standards allowed by the department for trauma centers or for purposes of identifying safety net hospitals.
(4) "Trauma patient" means a patient who is on the State Trauma Registry or the National Trauma Registry of the American College of Surgeons or who is a trauma burn patient.
(5) "Trauma service codes" means the International Classification of Diseases discharge codes designated as trauma service codes by the American College of Surgeons, Committee on Trauma.
(6) "Uncompensated" means care provided by a designated trauma center, emergency medical services provider, or physician to a trauma patient as defined by the Georgia Trauma Care Network Commission who:
  (A) Has no medical insurance, including federal Medicare Part B coverage;
  (B) Is not eligible for medical assistance coverage;
  (C) Has no medical coverage for trauma care through workers' compensation, automobile insurance, or any other third party, including any settlement or judgment resulting from such coverage; and
  (D) Has not paid for the trauma care provided by the trauma provider after documented attempts by the trauma care services provider to collect payment.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 58,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 14,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2007.
