# § 31-11-53.2. "Lay rescuer" defined; use of automated external defibrillators

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "lay rescuer" means a person trained to provide cardiopulmonary resuscitation and to use an automated external defibrillator, as defined in Code Section 31-11-53.1, and who is participating in a physician or medically authorized automated external defibrillator program.
(b) The following guidelines shall be applicable to the use of automated external defibrillators by lay rescuers:
  (1) Any person or entity who acquires an automated external defibrillator shall ensure that:
    (A) Expected users of the automated external defibrillator receive American Heart Association or American Red Cross training in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and automated external defibrillator use or complete an equivalent nationally recognized course;
    (B) The defibrillator is maintained and tested according to the manufacturer's operational guidelines;
    (C) There is involvement of a licensed physician or other person authorized by the composite board in the site's automated external defibrillator program to ensure compliance with requirements for training, notification, and maintenance; and
    (D) Any person who renders emergency care or treatment to a person in cardiac arrest by using an automated external defibrillator activates the emergency medical services system as soon as possible and reports any clinical use of the automated external defibrillator to the licensed physician or other person authorized by the composite board who is supervising the program; and
  (2) Any person or entity who acquires an automated external defibrillator shall notify an agent of the emergency communications or vehicle dispatch center of the existence, location, and type of automated external defibrillator.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 31, eff. 4/18/2002.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 225, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
