# § 31-11-114. Grants; report

(a) In order to encourage and ensure the establishment of stroke centers throughout the state, the department shall award grants, subject to appropriations from the General Assembly, to hospitals that seek identification as remote treatment stroke centers and demonstrate a need for financial assistance to develop the necessary infrastructure, including personnel and equipment, in order to satisfy the criteria for identification as a remote treatment stroke center pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 31-11-113.
(b) A hospital seeking identification as a remote treatment stroke center pursuant to this article may apply to the department for a grant, in a manner and on a form required by the department, and provide such information as the department deems necessary to determine if the hospital is eligible for the grant.
(c) The department may provide grants to as many hospitals as it deems appropriate, subject to appropriations, taking into consideration adequate geographic diversity with respect to locations.
(d) The department shall annually prepare and submit to the Governor, the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairpersons of the House Committee on Health and Human Services and the Senate Health and Human Services Committee for distribution to its committee members a report indicating the total number of hospitals that have applied for grants pursuant to this Code section, the number of applicants that have been determined by the department to be eligible for such grants, the total number of grants to be awarded, the name and address of each grantee hospital, the amount of the award to each grantee, and the amount of each award to be disbursed to the grantee.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 459,§ 1, eff. 4/26/2016.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 772,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
