# § 31-11-53. Services which may be rendered by certified emergency medical technicians and trainees; provisional practice by military medical personnel

(a) Upon certification by the department, emergency medical technicians may do any of the following:
  (1) Render first-aid and resuscitation services as taught in the United States Department of Transportation basic training courses for emergency medical technicians or an equivalent course approved by the department;
  (2) Upon the order of a duly licensed physician, administer approved intravenous solutions and opioid antagonists; and
  (3) Upon the order of a duly licensed physician during a public health emergency, as defined in Code Section 31-12-1.1, administer vaccines.
(b) While in training preparatory to becoming certified, emergency medical technician trainees may perform any of the functions specified in this Code section under the direct supervision of a duly licensed physician or a registered nurse.
(c) The department, in collaboration with the Department of Veterans Service, shall establish a program through which military medical personnel may provisionally operate within their scope of practice and training without additional training, experience, or examination for a period of up to 12 months. During such 12 month period, such individual may apply for certification at the appropriate level. The program established pursuant to this subsection shall not conflict with or supplant Code Section 38-3-71 or Georgia's status as a member of the EMS Interstate Compact.
(d) For purposes of this Code section, the term "military medical personnel" means an individual who has, within 12 months of seeking certification pursuant to this Code section, served as a medic in the United States Army, medical technician in the United States Air Force, or corpsman in the United States Navy or Coast Guard and who was discharged or released from such service under conditions other than dishonorable.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 486,§ 1-3, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 292,§ 5, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 616,§ 2-3, eff. 4/24/2014.
