# § 50-26-17. Powers as to real property; reverse equity mortgages; sale of qualified mortgage bonds; administration of alternate funds; authority to issue

(a) The authority may directly acquire, manage, develop, and dispose of real property and improvements thereon as it deems necessary or desirable to provide adequate housing within the state.
(b) The authority may issue bonds for reverse equity mortgages to enable the elderly to maintain a decent and appropriate residence while providing necessary cash for living expenses.
(c) With respect to the sale of new qualified mortgage bonds, at the time of original issuance of such bonds, at least one-third of the total proceeds available for mortgage loans shall be set aside to finance housing units in the metropolitan statistical areas of this state and at least one-third of the total proceeds available for mortgage loans shall be set aside to finance housing units outside of the metropolitan statistical areas of this state. The time period for the geographic set aside shall be four months from the date of issuance of the bonds. For the purpose of this geographic distribution requirement, no county with a population of less than 50,000 shall be considered as being within a metropolitan statistical area of this state. No geographic distribution requirement shall apply to multifamily housing units financed by the authority. No geographic distribution requirement shall apply to refunding bonds or recycled proceeds or to qualified mortgage bonds issued to spur economic and housing development in a discrete geographic area.
(d) The authority may receive and administer any and all federal funds, state funds, or funds, grants, or gifts from other sources which are intended to promote the availability or affordability of housing and housing finance within the state.
(e) The authority is the sole and exclusive issuer of mortgage credit certificates in and for the state, notwithstanding any contrary provision of law; provided, however, that any urban residential finance authority is permitted to issue mortgage credit certificates but only if the urban residential finance authority adopts purchase price and income limits consistent with those adopted by the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority for the mortgage credit certificate program.
(f) Code Section 44-14-5 shall not be applicable to mortgage loans purchased, made, or otherwise financed by the authority.
