# § 34-6-20. Definitions

(1) "Employee" includes any employee and shall not be limited to the employees of a particular employer.
(2) "Employer" includes any person acting in the interest of an employer, directly or indirectly, but shall not include the United States, a state or any political subdivision thereof, any person subject to the Railway Labor Act, as amended, any person employed by a transit authority subject to the provisions and requirements of Section 13(c) of the Federal Transit Act, 49 U.S.C. Section 5333(b), any labor organization (other than when acting as an employer), or anyone acting in the capacity of officer or agent of such labor organization.
(3) "Employment" means employment by an employer.
(4) "Federal labor laws" means the National Labor Relations Act and the Labor Management Relations Act, as amended by federal administrative regulations relating to labor and management or employee and employer issues, and the United States Constitution as amended and as construed by the federal courts.
(5) "Governmental body" means the State of Georgia or any local government or its subdivisions, including but not limited to cities, municipalities, counties, and any public body, agency, board, commission or other governmental, quasi-governmental, or quasi-public body, or like capacity of local government or its subdivision.
(6) "Labor organization" means any organization of any kind or any agency or employee representation committee or plan in which employees participate and which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours of employment, or conditions of work.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 192,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
