# § 34-6-21. Membership in or resignation from labor organization as condition of employment or continuation of employment; application of federal law

(a) No individual shall be required as a condition of employment or continuance of employment to be or remain a member or an affiliate of a labor organization or to resign from or to refrain from membership in or affiliation with a labor organization.
(b) No governmental body may pass any law, ordinance, or regulation or impose any contractual, zoning, permitting, licensing, or other condition that requires any employer or employee to waive statutory rights under federal labor laws.
(c) No governmental body may pass any law, ordinance, or regulation that would require, in whole or in part, an employer or multiple employer association to accept or otherwise agree to any provisions that are mandatory or nonmandatory subjects of collective bargaining under federal labor laws, including, but not limited to, any limitations on an employer's or multiple employer association's right to engage in collective bargaining with a labor organization, to lock out employees, or to operate during a work stoppage; provided, however, that the foregoing shall not invalidate or otherwise restrict the application of federal labor laws.
(d) No employer or labor organization shall be forced to enter into any agreement, contract, understanding, or practice, written or oral, implied or expressed, that subverts the established process by which employees may make informed and free decisions regarding representation and collective bargaining rights provided for by federal labor laws.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 192,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2013.
