# § 44-16-9. Limitation of environmental covenant

(a) An environmental covenant shall be perpetual, which shall be stated in such covenant, unless it is:
  (1) By its terms limited to a specific duration or terminated by the occurrence of a specific event;
  (2) Terminated by consent pursuant to Code Section 44-16-10;
  (3) Terminated pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section;
  (4) Terminated by foreclosure of an interest that has priority over the environmental covenant; or
  (5) Terminated or modified in an eminent domain proceeding, but only if:
    (A) The agency that signed the covenant is a party to the proceeding;
    (B) All persons identified in subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 44-16-10 are given notice of the pendency of the proceeding; and
    (C) The court determines, after hearing, that the termination or modification will not adversely affect human health or the environment.
(b) If the agency that signed an environmental covenant has determined that the intended benefits of the covenant can no longer be realized, a court, under the doctrine of changed circumstances, in an action in which all persons identified in subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 44-16-10 have been given notice, may terminate the covenant or reduce its burden on the real property subject to the covenant. The agency's determination or its failure to make a determination upon request of the current owner of the fee simple of the real property or by any affected member of the public shall be subject to review pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(c) Except as otherwise provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, an environmental covenant may not be extinguished, limited, or impaired through issuance of a tax deed, foreclosure of a tax lien, or application of the doctrine of adverse possession, prescription, abandonment, waiver, lack of enforcement, or acquiescence, or a similar doctrine.
(d) An environmental covenant may not be extinguished, limited, or impaired by application of Code Sections 44-5-60 and 44-5-168.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 44, eff. 5/12/2019.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 794,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
