# § 40-3-40. Reports and remittances by tag agents

(a) All county tag agents accepting and handling title applications shall endeavor to submit such applications and related sums of money to which the department is entitled to the commissioner on a daily basis. All reports of title applications handled and related sums of money collected to which the department is entitled must be submitted to the commissioner within seven calendar days from the close of the business day during which such applications were handled and related sums of money collected.
(b) Funds received as a result of handling title applications shall be considered trust funds in the hands of the tag agents until such time as they are paid over to the commissioner.
(c) Failure to submit the reports or remit the funds within the seven-calendar-day period from the close of the business day as required by this Code section shall result in the penalties imposed by Code Section 48-2-44.
(d) Before the expiration of the time period within which a title report is required to be filed with the commissioner or funds remitted to the commissioner, application may be made to the commissioner for an extension. The commissioner is authorized, upon a showing of justifiable cause, to grant up to a ten-day extension from the deadline provided for the performance of the above duties. Only one such extension may be granted with regard to any reports or funds due the commissioner for a specific business day.
(e) Proof of mailing within the appropriate time period provided for in this Code section, as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark, shall be prima-facie proof that the county tag agent has complied in a timely manner with his duties as enumerated by this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 15-2, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 40, eff. 4/7/2005.
