# § 40-3-24. Contents of certificate of title; certificate of title not subject to judicial process

(a) Each certificate of title issued by the commissioner or the commissioner's duly authorized county tag agent shall contain:
  (1) The date issued;
  (2) The name and address of the owner;
  (3) The names and addresses of the holders of any security interest and of any lien as shown on the application or, if the application is based on a certificate of title, as shown on the certificate;
  (4) The title number assigned to the vehicle;
  (5) A description of the vehicle, including, so far as the following data exist: its make, model, identifying number, type of body, number of cylinders, whether new, used, or a demonstrator and, if a new vehicle or a demonstrator, the date of the first sale of the vehicle for use; and
  (6) Any other data the commissioner prescribes.
(b) The certificate of title shall contain forms for assignment and warranty of title by the owner, and for assignment and warranty of title by a dealer, and may contain forms for applications for a certificate of title by a transferee or naming of a security interest holder and of a lienholder and the assignment or release of the security interest and lien.
(c) A certificate of title issued by the commissioner or the commissioner's duly authorized county tag agent is prima-facie evidence of the facts appearing on it.
(d) A certificate of title for a vehicle is not subject to garnishment, attachment, execution, or other judicial process, but this subsection does not prevent a lawful levy upon the vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
