# § 40-3-25. Entry of odometer reading on certificate of title upon sale or transfer of vehicle; certain vehicles exempted

(a) In addition to the information required by Code Section 40-3-24, each certificate of title issued by the commissioner or the commissioner's duly authorized county tag agent shall contain spaces thereon for the entry of the mileage of the motor vehicle as shown on the odometer of such motor vehicle at the time of its sale or transfer. When a demonstrator or a new motor vehicle is sold by a dealer, it shall be the duty of the dealer to insert on the application for the certificate of title and on the manufacturer's statement of origin where assigned to the first retail purchaser the mileage of such motor vehicle as shown on its odometer on the day of the sale. When the owner of a motor vehicle sells or transfers such motor vehicle, such owner shall enter on the certificate of title the mileage as shown on the odometer of such motor vehicle at the time such owner executes the assignment and warranty of title. When a new certificate of title is issued for a previously titled motor vehicle, the odometer reading as recorded on the old certificate of title shall be shown on the new certificate of title. When a replacement certificate of title is issued to the owner of a lost, stolen, mutilated, or destroyed certificate of title, the mileage as shown on the odometer on the day application is made for the replacement certificate of title shall be shown on the replacement certificate of title.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code section, the requirement of disclosure of the odometer mileage on certificates of title shall not be required for a motor vehicle:
  (1) With a gross vehicle weight rating of more than 16,000 pounds;
  (2) Manufactured in or before the 2010 model year and is transferred at least ten years after January 1 of the calendar year corresponding to its designated model year; or
  (3) Manufactured in or after the 2011 model year and is transferred at least 20 years after January 1 of the calendar year corresponding to its designated model.
(c) The commissioner is authorized and directed to provide by regulation for the implementation of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 272,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
