# § 40-3-26. Delivery; notice; security interest holders and lienholders

(a)
  (1) The certificate of title shall be mailed or delivered to the holder of the first security interest or lien named in it. In the event there is no security interest holder or lienholder named in such certificate, the certificate of title shall be mailed or delivered directly to the owner.
  (2) The commissioner may enter into agreements with any such security interest holder or lienholder to provide a means of delivery by secure electronic measures of a notice of the recording of such security interest or lien. On or after January 1, 2013, the commissioner shall require that security interest holders and lienholders receive notice of recordings of security interests and liens electronically. Such requirement may be phased in based on criteria designated by the commissioner through duly adopted rules and regulations. Such security interest or lien shall remain on the official records of the department until such time as the security interest or lien is released by secure electronic measures or affidavit of lien or security interest release; after which release, or at the request of the lienholder or security interest holder, the certificate of title may be printed and mailed or delivered to the next lienholder or security interest holder or as otherwise provided by paragraph (1) of this subsection without payment of any fee provided by Code Section 40-3-38.
  (3) If the certificate of title has not been electronically delivered as provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, in lieu of delivering a certificate of title, the commissioner may deliver to any security interest holder or lienholder a confirmation form stating the certificate of title is available for printing:
    (A) When such confirmation is presented to the commissioner's duly authorized county tag agent or to the commissioner requesting delivery of the title in accordance with this Code section;
    (B) When the security interest or lien is satisfied and the confirmation form is delivered to the owner stating the security interest or lien is satisfied and released. The owner may then present the confirmation letter to the commissioner's duly authorized county tag agent or the commissioner for printing in accordance with this Code section; or
    (C) When the security interest holder or lienholder delivers the confirmation form to the commissioner's duly authorized county tag agent or the commissioner stating the security interest or lien is satisfied and released and provides an alternate delivery address to include any subsequent security interest holder, lienholder, vehicle dealer, or other business with an interest in such vehicle.
  (4) In the event the confirmation form is lost or stolen, the security interest holder or lienholder shall file an affidavit stating the circumstances under which the confirmation form was lost or stolen. Upon receipt, the commissioner shall deliver a certificate of title in accordance with this Code section.
(b) If the certificate of title is mailed to a security interest holder or lienholder, such person shall notify by mail all other lien or security interest holders that such person has received the certificate of title. The notice shall inform the security interest holder or lienholder of the contents and information reflected on such certificate of title. Such mailing or delivery shall be within five days, exclusive of holidays, after the receipt of the certificate by the holder of any security interest or lien.
(c) The security interest holder or lienholder may retain custody of the certificate of title until such security interest holder's or lienholder's claim has been satisfied. The security interest holder or lienholder having custody of a certificate of title must deliver the certificate of title to the next lienholder or security interest holder within ten days after such custodial security interest holder's or lienholder's lien or security interest has been satisfied and, if there is no other security interest holder or lienholder, such custodial security interest holder or lienholder must deliver the certificate of title to the owner.
(d) If a lien or security interest has been electronically recorded, the release of such lien or security interest will require the lienholder to notify the commissioner and the owner of the vehicle, on a form prescribed by the commissioner, or by electronic means approved by the commissioner, of the release of the lien or security interest. Such notice will inform the owner that such owner may request a title free of lien, upon verification of such owner's current mailing address, from the commissioner as provided in Code Section 40-3-56.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 632,§ I-2, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 381,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2010.
