# § 40-3-28. Registration of vehicle where commissioner not satisfied as to ownership of vehicle; bond

(1) withhold issuance of a certificate of title until the applicant presents documents reasonably sufficient to satisfy the commissioner or authorized county tag agent as to the applicant's ownership of the vehicle and that there are no undisclosed security interests in it; or
(2) as a condition of issuing a certificate of title, require the applicant to file with the commissioner or authorized county tag agent a bond in the form prescribed by the commissioner and executed by the applicant and by a bonding, surety, or insurance company licensed to do business in Georgia. The bond shall be in an amount equal to the value of the vehicle as determined by the commissioner or authorized county tag agent and payable to the commissioner for the benefit of any prior owner, lienholder, or security interest holder, and any subsequent purchaser of the vehicle or person acquiring any security interest or lien on it, and their respective successors in interest, against any expense, loss, or damage, by reason of the issuance of the certificate of title of the vehicle or on account of any defect in or undisclosed security interest upon the right, title, and interest of the applicant in and to the vehicle. The commissioner shall have a right of action to recover on the bond for any breach of its conditions, but the aggregate liability of the surety to all persons shall not exceed the amount of the bond. The bond shall expire at the end of four years unless the commissioner or authorized county tag agent has been notified of a breach of a condition of the bond.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 838, § 3, eff. 7/1/2002.
