# § 40-3-56. Satisfaction of security interests and liens

(a)
  (1) If any security interest or lien listed on a certificate of title is satisfied, the holder thereof shall, within ten days, execute a release in the form the commissioner prescribes and mail or deliver the release to the commissioner and the owner, provided that as an alternative to a handwritten signature, the commissioner may authorize use of a digital signature as long as appropriate security measures are implemented which assure security and verification of the digital signature process, in accordance with regulations promulgated by the commissioner. For the purposes of the release of a security interest or lien the "holder" of the lien or security interest is the parent bank or other lending institution and any branch or office of the parent institution may execute such release.
  (2) If the commissioner has entered into an agreement with such a security interest holder or lienholder to provide a means of delivery by secure electronic measures of a notice of the recording of such security interest or lien, at such time as the security interest or lien is released, by secure electronic measures, the certificate of title may be printed and mailed or delivered to the next lienholder or security interest holder or, if there is no other security interest holder or lienholder, to the owner without payment of any fee provided by Code Section 40-3-38.
(b) The owner may then forward the certificate of title, the release, the properly executed title application, and title application fee to the commissioner or the commissioner's duly authorized county tag agent, and the commissioner or authorized county tag agent shall release the security interest or lien on the certificate or issue a new certificate and mail or deliver the certificate to the owner. If the satisfied security interest or lien is one reflected on the certificate of title but the certificate of title is in the custody of the first security interest holder or lienholder as provided by this chapter, the release may be handled as provided in Code Section 40-3-27, and Code Section 40-3-26 shall otherwise be complied with. In the event that the lienholder or security interest holder is no longer in business, an individual shall not be required to submit a release to secure a new certificate of title. The owner shall be required to present to the commissioner or authorized county tag agent certification from the appropriate regulatory agency that such lienholder or security interest holder is no longer in business.
(c) Except for liens and security interests listed on certificates of title for mobile homes, cranes, or vehicles which weigh more than 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, which shall be satisfied only in conformity with subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, any lien or security interest for a vehicle which is 11 model years old or less shall be considered satisfied and release shall not be required after ten years from the date of issuance of a title on which such lien or security interest is listed. For a vehicle which is 12 model years old and greater, any lien or security interest shall be considered satisfied and a release shall not be required after four years from the date of issuance of a title on which such lien or security interest is listed. None of the provisions of this Code section shall preclude the perfection of a new lien or security agreement, or the perfection of an extension of a lien or security agreement beyond a period of ten years for a vehicle which is 11 model years old or less or beyond a period of more than four years for a vehicle which is 12 model years old or greater, by application for a new certificate of title on which such lien or security agreement is listed. In order to provide for the continuous perfection of a lien or security interest originally entered into for a period of more than ten years for a vehicle which is 11 model years old or less or more than four years for a vehicle which is 12 model years old and greater, other than a mobile home, crane, or vehicle which weighs more than 10,000 pounds gross vehicle weight, an application for a second title on which the lien or security interest is listed must be submitted to the commissioner or the commissioner's duly authorized tag agent before ten years from the date of the original title on which such lien or security interest is listed. Otherwise the lien or security interest shall be perfected as of the date of receipt of the application by the commissioner or the commissioner's duly authorized county tag agent.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 590,§ I-1-5, eff. 7/1/2012.
