# § 40-3-4. Exclusions from issuance of certificate of title

(1) A vehicle owned by the United States unless it is registered in this state;
(2) A vehicle owned by a manufacturer of or dealer in vehicles and held for sale, even though incidentally used on the highway or used for purpose of testing or demonstration; a vehicle owned by a manufacturer headquarters or its affiliate and registered and licensed pursuant to Code Section 40-2-38; a vehicle owned by a dealer in vehicles but used by any Georgia public or private school for driver education purposes; or a vehicle used by a manufacturer solely for testing; except that all dealers acquiring new vehicles after July 1, 1962, from a manufacturer for resale shall obtain such evidence of origin of title from the manufacturer as the commissioner shall by rule and regulation prescribe;
(3) A vehicle owned by a nonresident of this state and not required by law to be registered in this state;
(4) A vehicle regularly engaged in the interstate transportation of persons or property for which a currently effective certificate of title has been issued in another state;
(5) A vehicle moved solely by human or animal power;
(6) An implement of husbandry;
(7) Special mobile equipment;
(8) A self-propelled wheelchair or invalid tricycle;
(9) A pole trailer;
(10) Motor buses used for the transportation of persons by a street railroad or other company engaged in the operation of an urban transit system over fixed routes;
(11) A boat trailer;
(12) A homemade trailer;
(13) A device used exclusively upon stationary rails or tracks or which obtains motive power from fixed overhead electric wires;
(14)
  (A) A vehicle, other than a mobile home or crane, the model year of which is prior to 1986.
  (B) The owner of any vehicle which has a valid certificate of title and which becomes subject to the exclusion provided in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph may retain the certificate of title. Each subsequent transferee of any vehicle covered by subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, for which the certificate of title has been retained, may obtain a certificate of title by complying with Code Section 40-3-32. However, the failure of any subsequent transferee to comply with Code Section 40-3-32 shall preclude transferees subsequent to that transferee from obtaining a certificate of title. The department shall maintain such records as may be necessary to allow owners to obtain a certificate of title under this subparagraph. No certificate of title authorized to be issued under this subparagraph shall be issued under Code Section 40-3-28.
  (C)
    (i) A security interest in or lien against a vehicle which is subject to the exclusion provided for in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph and which arises after such vehicle becomes subject to the operation of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph may be perfected in the same manner as such security interests and liens are perfected on vehicles required by this chapter to have certificates of title.
    (ii) The transferee of any vehicle which is subject to the exclusion provided for in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, regardless of whether that vehicle has a certificate of title issued pursuant to subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, shall take such vehicle subject to any security interest or lien perfected under this paragraph;
(15)
  (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, a trailer with an unladen gross weight of 2,000 pounds or less.
  (B) The exclusion provided in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall not apply to a travel trailer or camper, regardless of its unladen gross weight;
(16) A vehicle which is not sold for the purpose of lawful highway use;
(17) A vehicle with a model year prior to 1963;
(18) A moped; or
(19) A personal transportation vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 193,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 629,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
