# § 40-3-21.1. Conditional titles; requirements

For a 1962 or earlier model year motor vehicle, the owner of such motor vehicle may apply to the commissioner through the county tag agent for a conditional title for such motor vehicle. The application shall be made under oath on a form prescribed by the commissioner for such purpose. Such form shall require the applicant to provide such information as the commissioner shall determine, including all liens and other encumbrances known to the applicant at the time of application, which the commissioner shall cause to be listed on the conditional title upon its issuance. Upon receipt of the application, the commissioner or the commissioner's duly authorized county tag agent shall file such application and, when satisfied as to its genuineness and regularity and that the applicant is entitled to the issuance of a conditional certificate of title under the provisions of this chapter, shall issue a conditional certificate of title for the motor vehicle. The conditional certificate of title shall be clearly marked as such and shall contain a disclaimer that states that the title may not reflect all liens or other encumbrances affecting the motor vehicle. The commissioner may impose a fee for the issuance of a conditional title which shall not exceed $20.00. The duly authorized county tag agent shall retain 50 percent of such fee for the general fund of the county and shall transmit the remaining 50 percent to the department for deposit into the state treasury.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 367,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2019.
