# § 40-3-30.1. Standards for issuance to assembled motor vehicle and motorcycle or converted motor vehicle; inspections; unconventional motor vehicle or motorcycle not to be titled or registered; exception

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Assembled motor vehicle or motorcycle" means any motor vehicle or motorcycle that is:
    (A) Manufactured from a manufacturer's kit or manufacturer's fabricated parts, including replicas and original designs:
      (i)
        (I) By an owner; or
        (II) At the request of the owner by a third-party manufacturer of motor vehicles or motorcycles; and
      (ii)
        (I) Such owner or third-party manufacturer is not manufacturing and testing in accordance with federal safety standards issued pursuant to 49 U.S.C.A. Section 30101, et seq.; and
        (II) The United States Customs Service or the United States Department of Transportation has not certified that the motor vehicle complies with such applicable federal standards;
    (B) A new vehicle and consists of a prefabricated body, chassis, and drive train;
    (C) Handmade and not mass produced by any manufacturer for retail sale; or
    (D) Not otherwise excluded from emission requirements and is in compliance with Chapter 8 of Title 40, relating to equipment and inspection of motor vehicles.
  (2) "Converted motor vehicle" means any unconventional motor vehicle that has been altered from the original manufactured condition by an owner or third party in order to comply with certain state and federal requirements relating to low-speed vehicles.
  (3)
    (A) "Unconventional motor vehicle or motorcycle" means any motor vehicle or motorcycle that is not manufactured in compliance with the following:
      (i) Chapter 8 of Title 40, relating to equipment and inspection of motor vehicles;
      (ii) Applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards issued pursuant to 49 U.S.C.A. Section 30101, et seq., unless and until the United States Customs and Border Protection Agency or the United States Department of Transportation has certified that the motor vehicle complies with such applicable federal standards; or
      (iii) Applicable federal emission standards issued pursuant to 42 U.S.C.A. Section 7401 through Section 7642, the "Clean Air Act," as amended.
    (B) Such term shall not include former military motor vehicles.
(b) In addition to the requirements contained in Code Section 40-3-30, prior to the issuance of a certificate of title to the owner of an assembled motor vehicle or motorcycle, the owner shall cause such assembled motor vehicle or motorcycle to be inspected in order to establish:
  (1) The existence of a verifiable Manufacturer's Certificate of Origin (MCO) or other verifiable documentation of purchase of all major components; and
  (2) That such assembled motor vehicle or motorcycle complies with:
    (A) Chapter 8 of Title 40, relating to equipment and inspection of motor vehicles; and
    (B) If applicable, federal emission standards issued pursuant to 42 U.S.C.A. Section 7401 through Section 7642, the "Clean Air Act," as amended.
(c) Prior to the issuance of a certificate of title to the owner of a converted motor vehicle, the owner shall cause such converted motor vehicle to be inspected in order to establish that such vehicle complies with:
  (1) Chapter 8 of Title 40, relating to equipment and inspection of motor vehicles; and
  (2) Standards for low-speed vehicles based upon applicable standards set forth in 49 C.F.R. Section 571.500, as amended.
(d) The inspections conducted under subsection (b) and subsection (c) of this Code section shall only be for the purpose of establishing that such inspected motor vehicle or motorcycle is eligible to receive a certificate of title.
(e) The department shall be authorized to charge an inspection fee.
(f) Unconventional motor vehicles or motorcycles shall not be titled or registered; provided, however, that a multipurpose off-highway vehicle manufactured after January 1, 2000, shall be registered upon proper application and payment of the required fee.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 241,§ 2-6, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 498,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 629,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 567,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 727,§ 6, eff. 5/14/2008.
