# § 45-4-11. Blanket bonds covering two or more political subdivisions, officers authorized; amount and coverage period; recording; entities

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, the several counties, municipalities, and other political subdivisions of this state, including independent school districts, are authorized to purchase blanket bonds in lieu of individual bonds. Blanket bonds may cover any two or more officers, officials, agents, and any other employees of such political subdivisions where they are required by law to be bonded.
(b) A blanket bond shall be in an amount sufficient to cover all or certain specified individual bonds otherwise required by law to be purchased by a county, municipality, or other political subdivision. The blanket bond shall specify the dates of coverage, the positions or persons covered by the bond, and the persons or entities to whom or to which the bond is payable.
(c) A blanket bond shall be signed by the judge of the probate court of the county wherein the county, municipality, or school district purchasing the blanket bond is located. The bond shall be filed and recorded in the office of the probate court. Such signing, filing, and recording shall be in lieu of any other endorsement, signing, filing, approval, or recording otherwise required by law for individual bonds. Where a municipality or school district is located in more than one county, the bond shall be signed, filed, and recorded by the probate judge of the county within which the municipality or school district is predominately located based upon population.
(d) In addition to any other guaranty or surety companies authorized by this chapter, a blanket bond may be offered by an interlocal risk management agency created pursuant to Chapter 85 of Title 36 or Article 29 of Chapter 2 of Title 20 and may be in the form of a copy of an original annual coverage agreement providing the blanket bond.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 865, § 1, eff. 5/14/2002.
