# § 47-16-61. Payments to fund from fees collected in civil actions; duty to record and remit sums collected; penalties on delinquent amounts

(a) In addition to all other legal costs, the sum of $5.00 shall be charged and collected in each civil action, case, or proceeding, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all adoptions, charters, petitions for review, applications by personal representative for leave to sell or invest, trade name registrations, applications for change of name, and all other proceedings of a civil nature filed in the superior courts. The clerks of the superior courts shall collect such fees, and the fees so collected shall be remitted to the board quarterly or at such other time as the board may provide. It shall be the duty of the clerks of the superior courts to keep accurate records of the amounts due the board under this subsection, and such records may be audited by the board at any time. The sums remitted to the board under this subsection shall be used only for the purposes provided for in this chapter.
(b) In addition to all other legal costs, the sum of $5.00 shall be charged and collected in each civil action, case, or proceeding, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all adoptions, charters, petitions for review, applications by personal representative for leave to sell or invest, trade name registrations, applications for change of name, and all other proceedings of a civil nature filed in the state courts and magistrate courts of this state in which the sheriff of the superior court also fulfills the function as sheriff of such inferior court. The clerks of such state courts and magistrate courts shall collect such fees, and the fees so collected shall be remitted to the board quarterly or at such other time as the board may provide. It shall be the duty of the clerks of such state courts and magistrate courts to keep accurate records of the amounts due the board under this subsection, and such records may be audited by the board at any time. The sums remitted to the board under this subsection shall be used only for the purposes provided for in this chapter.
(c) If the person or authority whose duty it is to collect and remit moneys to the secretary-treasurer under subsection (a) or subsection (b) of this Code section shall fail to remit such moneys within 60 days of the date on which such remittal is due, such moneys shall be delinquent; and there shall be imposed, in addition to the principal amount due, a specific penalty in the amount of 5 percent of the principal amount per month for each month during which the moneys continue to be delinquent, provided that such penalty shall not exceed a total of 25 percent of the principal due. In addition to such penalty, interest shall be charged on the delinquent moneys at the rate of 6 percent per annum from the date such moneys become delinquent until they are paid. By affirmative vote of all the members, the board upon the payment of the delinquent moneys, together with interest, for good cause shown may waive the specific penalty otherwise charged under this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 569,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-38, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
