# § 47-16-41. Delayed application for membership in the fund; credit for prior service as a sheriff, member of the armed forces of the United States, or peace officer

(a) Any duly qualified and commissioned sheriff who would be eligible to become a member but for the provisions of paragraph (2) of Code Section 47-16-40 shall be permitted to become a member if he files his application with the secretary-treasurer of the board between June 1, 1969, and June 30, 1969, or within 30 days following the beginning of such sheriff's new elective or appointive term.
(b) Any sheriff who has served as a sheriff of a county of this state at any time since 1960 and who has not been a member of the fund may become a member by means of either of the following procedures:
  (1) He may claim credit for all prior service as a sheriff by tendering payment of all amounts which he would have paid had he been a member of the fund, together with interest on such amounts at 8 percent per annum and such reasonable penalty as may be imposed by the board; or
  (2) He may waive credit for prior service as a sheriff and be credited for service beginning on the first day of the elective or appointive term in which his application is submitted to and accepted by the board. In no event shall any sheriff who joins the fund under this subsection or subsection (a) of this Code section be permitted to claim credit for prior service as a peace officer, except sheriff, or member of any of the armed forces of the United States under Code Section 47-16-80.
(c) Any currently serving sheriff who was previously a member of the fund but who subsequently ceased to be a sheriff and withdrew from the fund may, upon again becoming a sheriff, become a member of the fund by submitting an application to the secretary-treasurer of the board between July 1, 1994, and December 31, 1994. After December 31, 1994, any person who was previously a member of the fund and subsequently ceased to be a sheriff and withdrew from the fund may become a member of the fund by submitting an application to the secretary-treasurer of the board within one year from the date he or she again becomes a sheriff. No sheriff who joins the fund pursuant to this subsection shall be entitled to claim credit for prior service as a sheriff, a peace officer, or a member of the armed services.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 64, eff. 7/1/2010.
