# § 47-16-44. Removal from active membership roll; requirements for reinstatement to active membership; claim for credit for service during period of inactive membership

(a) If a member fails to comply with the requirements of Code Section 47-16-43 for any reason, the board shall remove him from the active membership roll and place him on the inactive or dormant roll. During such time as he may be on the inactive or dormant roll, he shall receive no credit for service as a basis for his retirement unless and until he is reinstated as an active member.
(b) If the removal was occasioned by noncompliance with paragraph (1) of Code Section 47-16-43, the member may be reinstated to the active membership roll upon again becoming a sheriff and filing his application for reinstatement within 12 months from the date he again becomes a sheriff. In his application for reinstatement, he may also list and claim credit for any time he may have served in the armed forces of the United States or as a peace officer during such inactive or dormant membership period, provided that such claim otherwise meets the requirements and limitations of Code Section 47-16-80. The time of filing this application and claim for credit and the payment of dues in order to receive credit for services performed during such inactive or dormant period of membership shall be governed by paragraphs (2), (4), and (5) of Code Section 47-16-40, respectively.
(c) If the removal is occasioned by noncompliance with paragraph (2) of Code Section 47-16-43, upon filing an application for reinstatement to the active membership roll within 12 months from the date of first default and payment of all dues then in default, together with interest on such amounts at 8 percent per annum from the date of such default to the date of payment and such reasonable penalty as may be imposed by the board, the member may be reinstated to the active membership roll and credited for such service. The member may elect to be reinstated to active membership in the fund without credit for prior service, in which case he will not be required to pay dues in default or interest thereon. In such case, he shall receive credit for service from the first day of the term in which his application for reinstatement is submitted to and approved by the board. Application for reinstatement under this subsection shall be accepted by the board only if it is filed by the member between June 1, 1969, and June 30, 1969, or within 30 days following the beginning of his new elective or appointive term.
(d) If the removal is occasioned by noncompliance with paragraph (3) of Code Section 47-16-43, the member may be reinstated to the active roll upon compliance with such reasonable rules and regulations as may be provided by the board.
