# § 47-16-101. Retirement benefit options; failure of member to select an option; effect of changes in retirement benefits and options; change of option after receipt of payments

(a) At the time a member becomes eligible for retirement benefits, he or she shall choose one of three payment options for retirement benefits. The member must indicate his or her choice of payment options upon the application for retirement benefits filed with the secretary-treasurer. Upon approval of the member's application by the board, such member shall be paid retirement benefits in the form of a monthly sum of money determined in accordance with the option he or she has selected. The three payment options are as follows:
  (1) Option One shall be known as a "single life annuity" and shall provide retirement benefits for the life of the member only. If the member has no more than four years of service credited to such member under this chapter, the member shall be paid a benefit of $380.00 per month until the member's death. If the member has more than four years credited to such member under the provisions of this chapter, such member shall be paid a benefit of $380.00 per month, plus $95.00 per month for each additional year of service so credited to the member. If the member has additional service credit not totaling a full year, the further sum of one-twelfth of the amount paid per month for each additional year of service credit over four years shall be paid for each month of additional service so credited to the member; provided, however, that in no case shall such benefits exceed $2,850.00 per month; provided, further, that the board of commissioners shall be authorized to increase such benefits by an amount not to exceed 3 percent per annum based on the following factors:
    (A) The recommendation of the actuary of the board of commissioners;
    (B) The maintenance of the actuarial soundness of the fund in accordance with the standards provided in Code Section 47-20-10 or such higher standards as may be adopted by the board; and
    (C) Such other factors as the board deems relevant. Any such increase may be uniform or may vary in accordance with the time of retirement, length of service, age, nature of the retirement, or such other factors as the board of commissioners shall determine; provided, however, that no such increase shall be made to become effective within six months of the effective date of any increase in the maximum retirement benefit granted by the General Assembly through amendment of this Code section;
  (2) Option Two shall be known as a "100 percent joint life annuity" and shall provide retirement benefits for the life of either the member or his or her spouse, whichever is the survivor. The monthly amount to be paid under this option shall be based on the member's age and that of his or her spouse at the member's retirement and shall be the actuarial equivalent of the monthly retirement payment which would have been paid to the member under Option One. Actuarial equivalents shall be computed using a current and accurate mortality table adopted by the board; and
  (3) Option Three shall be known as the "50 percent contingency life annuity" and shall provide for payment of a 50 percent benefit for the life of the surviving spouse. The amount to be paid under this option shall be based on the member's age and that of his or her spouse at the member's retirement and shall be computed so as to be actuarially equivalent to the monthly benefit which would have been paid to the member under Option One. Actuarial equivalents shall be computed using a current and accurate mortality table adopted by the board. When a retired member has elected Option Two or Option Three, in the event the spouse predeceases the retired member, the monthly retirement benefit payable to the retired member after the death of the spouse shall be increased to the monthly retirement benefit which the retired member would have been entitled to receive under Option One. In the event any such retired member remarries or has remarried after the death of the former spouse, the retired member may elect to begin receiving the applicable reduced retirement benefit of equivalent actuarial value and reestablish on behalf of the new spouse the same option which was applicable to the deceased former spouse, but such option on behalf of the new spouse may not be reestablished until one year after the date of remarriage or until a child of the remarried couple is born, whichever is earlier. Such actuarial equivalence shall be based on the age of the retired member and the age of the retired member's new spouse at the time of such election and shall be computed on the Mortality Table GA51, with projection, using interest at 6 percent per annum, with a five-year age setback for females and monthly payment annuity functions.
(b)
  (1) Benefits payable to the spouse of a deceased member shall be payable for only so long as such spouse remains the widow or widower of such deceased member and, should such spouse remarry, any benefits payable to such spouse shall cease as of the date of remarriage.
  (2) At any time after the entry of a final judgment of divorce, a retired member receiving benefits under either Option Two or Option Three may continue receiving benefits under the option so chosen for the benefit of the former spouse or may revoke the election. In the event the retired member revokes the election, the retired member shall begin receiving the monthly retirement benefit which the retired member would have been entitled to receive under Option One. Benefits paid under Option One to a retired member following such revocation shall not be retroactive. In the event that the retired member remarries after divorce from the former spouse and the member elected to revoke Option Two or Option Three as provided in this paragraph, the retired member may elect to begin receiving reduced monthly retirement benefits of actuarial equivalence under either Option Two or Option Three. Such actuarial equivalence shall be based on the age of the retired member and the age of the retired member's new spouse at the time of such election and shall be computed on the Mortality Table GA5 1, with projection, using interest at 6 percent per annum, with a five-year age setback for females and monthly payment annuity functions.
(c) Any provisions of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, $20.00 shall be deducted from the monthly retirement benefits of the member or the monthly retirement benefits under Option Two or Three to the spouse of the member when the member has been credited with any period of service under this chapter which was performed prior to January 1, 1961, and for which dues shall not have been paid by the member, until a total sum of $20.00 for every month of service prior to January 1, 1961, so credited to the member shall have been withheld, or until dues have been paid or withheld for a maximum of 25 years, or until the death of the member and his or her spouse who is receiving benefits, whichever may occur first.
(d) In the event any member with a spouse then living is unable to choose one of the three option payments, to complete and file an application for retirement benefits with the secretary-treasurer, or to obtain the approval of the board because of his or her death, mental incompetency, or other providential cause, but the member is otherwise eligible to receive retirement benefits except for his or her having been prevented, Option Two shall be effective, and retirement benefits shall be paid in accordance with that option.
(e) The options under this Code section and the increase in the amounts to be paid as retirement benefits pursuant to said options shall become effective and apply from and after May 1, 1979. Those members and persons already receiving retirement benefits which were computed and determined at a time when the options were not available shall not be afforded an opportunity to select an option but shall have their retirement benefits recomputed and determined in accordance with the provisions of Option One, and the increase in benefits shall be paid to such members or persons from and after May 1, 1979. For those members or persons eligible to receive retirement benefits from and after May 1, 1979, their service shall be computed and determined in accordance with the increased retirement benefits in this Code section in accordance with the member's option selected in accordance with the provisions of this Code section and according to the number of years of creditable service credited to such member or person under this Code section, and such member shall be paid the retirement benefits so determined from and after May 1, 1979. For those members or persons already receiving retirement benefits, such members or persons shall be entitled to have their retirement benefits recomputed and determined in accordance with this Code section, and the increase in benefits according to their years of creditable service shall be paid to such members and persons from and after May 1, 1979.
(f) No member shall be allowed to change the retirement options provided in this Code section subsequent to the time that such member receives the first payment under the retirement option originally selected by such member.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 652,§; 1, eff. 7/1/2012, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47; otherwise, this amendment shall be automatically repealed on 7/1/2012, as required by Code Section 47-20-50(a).
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§; 66, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§; 64, eff. 7/1/2010.
