# § 47-16-102. Death benefits; beneficiaries; procedure for designation of beneficiary to receive such benefits

(1) If any member of this fund dies before retirement, whether such member is active or inactive, an amount equal to the total amount which has been paid by such member into the fund as dues shall be paid, without interest, to such member's surviving spouse, if any, to such member's named beneficiary, if any, or to such member's estate, in that order. If any member dies after retirement without having received an amount equal in benefits to the total amount which he or she has paid into the fund as dues, the difference, without interest, shall be paid to his or her surviving spouse, if any, to his or her named beneficiary, if any, or to such member's estate, in that order;
(2) In addition to the death benefits provided in paragraph (1) of this Code section, upon the death of any inactive member who would otherwise qualify to be carried upon the active membership rolls but for the fact that the member no longer holds the office of sheriff, any member who is receiving retirement benefits, or any member who is otherwise qualified to receive retirement benefits from this fund except that the member has not reached the age of 55 years or has not filed an application or has not been approved for retirement benefits, the sum of $25,000.00 shall be paid as additional death benefits to the surviving spouse of such member, if any, to the member's named beneficiary, if any, or to the member's estate, in that order. Upon the death of any active member, the sum of $25,000.00 shall be paid as additional death benefits to the surviving spouse of such member, if any, to the member's named beneficiary, if any, or to the member's estate, in that order;
(3) At the time any member submits his or her application for membership in this fund, at the time any member submits his or her application for retirement benefits, and from time to time any member of this fund, whether carried on the active or inactive rolls of this fund, and any person who is receiving retirement benefits from this fund shall be afforded the opportunity to name a designated beneficiary to receive the death benefits provided for in this Code section; provided, however, that such named beneficiary shall be entitled to receive such death benefits only in the event such member or person does not leave surviving a spouse at the time of his or her death. The procedure by which a member or person receiving retirement benefits names a beneficiary to receive the death benefits provided for in this Code section shall be determined and established by the board, which shall have authority to establish forms and procedures for payment of the death benefits; and
(4) Upon the death of an active member before or after the retirement of such member, the surviving spouse of such member shall receive death benefits in the form of an annuity for the life of such spouse, such annuity to be determined and paid under paragraph (2) of subsection (a), subsection (b), and subsection (c) of Code Section 47-16-101 to the same extent as if such member had died while receiving retirement benefits under Option Two; and in the case of the death of an active member who is not already receiving retirement benefits, such annuity shall be determined and based upon the period of creditable service which such member has at the time of his or her death. Such benefit shall be in addition to benefits under paragraph (2) of this Code section, and in lieu of benefits under paragraph (1) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 569,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 64, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 417,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2008.
