# § 49-6-20. Council created; appointment and terms of members; officers; rules; meetings

(a) There is created the Council on Aging. The council shall be composed of 20 members, at least ten of whom shall be consumers of services under programs of the Division of Aging Services of the Department of Human Services or similar state agencies. The ten consumer members shall include low income and minority older persons at least in proportion to their number in the population of the state. The remaining ten members of the council shall be representative of major public and private agencies and organizations in the state and shall be experienced in or have demonstrated particular interest in the needs of the elderly. The members of the council shall be appointed as follows:
  (1) Four consumer members and four members representing public and private agencies and organizations shall be appointed by the Governor;
  (2) Two consumer members and two members representing public and private agencies and organizations shall be appointed by the President of the Senate;
  (3) Two consumer members and two members representing public and private agencies and organizations shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House; and
  (4) Two consumer members and two members representing public and private agencies and organizations shall be appointed by the commissioner.
(b) Each member's term shall be for two years and until his successor is appointed and qualified. The members of the council shall be eligible to succeed themselves. The council shall elect its own chairman and such other officers as it deems necessary. The council may adopt rules and procedures. The council shall meet upon the call of its chairman, the board, or the commissioner.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-5, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
