# § 49-6-72. Definitions

(1) "Adult" means a person 18 years of age or older residing within the State of Georgia who is a functionally dependent older adult or who is suffering from dementia, such as Alzheimer's disease.
(2) "Area agency on aging" means the single local agency designated by the Division of Aging Services of the department within each planning and service area to administer the delivery of a comprehensive and coordinated plan of social and other services and activities in the planning and service area.
(3) "Dementia" means:
  (A) an irreversible global loss of cognitive function causing evident intellectual impairment which always includes memory loss, without alteration of state of consciousness, as diagnosed by a physician, and is severe enough to interfere with work or social activities, or both, and to require continuous care or supervision; or
  (B) the comatose state of an adult resulting from any head injury.
(4) "Department" means the Department of Human Services.
(5) "Functionally dependent older adult" means a person 60 years of age or older residing within the State of Georgia who, because of his or her inability to perform tasks required for daily living, as defined by the department and as may be assessed through an area agency on aging or community care assessment team, needs continuous care and supervision.
(6) "Home modification" means reasonable modifications to the structure of a home for the purpose of reducing the caregiving burden of the caregiver, as approved by the department, but does not include repairs and payment for such repairs.
(7) "Household income" means the income of all members of a household with the exception of a minor or dependent student.
(8) "Income" means all income, from whatever source derived, including, but not limited to, wages, salaries, social security or railroad retirement income, public assistance income, realized capital gains, and workers' compensation. The department shall determine income amounts and inclusions for the purposes of this article through regulation.
(9) "Primary caregiver" means the one identified relative or other person in a relationship of responsibility, such as an agent under a valid durable power of attorney for health care, a health care agent under a valid advance directive for health care, or a mental health care agent under a valid psychiatric advance directive, who has assumed the primary responsibility for the provision of care needed to maintain the physical or mental health of a functionally dependent older adult or other adult suffering from dementia, who lives in the same residence with such individual, and who does not receive financial compensation for the care provided. A substantiated case of abuse, neglect, or exploitation, as defined in Chapter 5 of Title 30, the "Disabled Adults and Elder Persons Protection Act," or pursuant to any other civil or criminal statute regarding an older adult, shall prohibit a primary caregiver from receiving benefits under this article unless authorized by the department to prevent further abuse.
(10) "Relative" means a spouse, parent, child, stepparent, stepchild, grandparent, grandchild, brother, sister, half-brother, half-sister, aunt, uncle, great aunt, great uncle, niece, or nephew by blood, marriage, or adoption.
(11) "Respite care service" means a regular, intermittent, or emergency service which provides the primary caregiver of a functionally dependent older adult or other adult suffering from dementia with relief from normal caregiving duties and responsibilities.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 836,§ 2-30, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 49, eff. 2/24/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 48,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2007.
