# § 44-1-14. Abatement of hazard from abandoned well or hole; recovery costs; use of county funds

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "abandoned well or hole" means any manmade opening upon the surface of the earth which is ten feet or more in depth and which has not been used for a period of 60 days. The term does not include ditches; sand or gravel pits; stone, marble, or slate quarries; clay pits; surface mines as defined in Part 3 of Article 2 of Chapter 4 of Title 12, the "Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968"; or geologic boreholes as defined in Part 3 of Article 3 of Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Water Well Standards Act of 1985."
(b) Whenever it is brought to the attention of any person that an open abandoned well or hole, as defined in subsection (a) of this Code section, exists on public or private property, such person shall immediately inform the governing authority of the county in which the hazard exists. The governing authority shall inform the owner or possessor of the land upon which the hazard exists. The governing authority of any such county is authorized to use county work crews, private contractors, or any inmate labor within the county to abate the hazard either by covering, filling, or otherwise. When the hazard exists on private property, the governing authority shall first obtain the permission of the owner or possessor of the property before proceeding with any action in regard to abating the hazard existing on the private property. Upon approval by the owner or possessor of the private property, the governing authority may use county work crews, private contractors, or inmate labor; but in no case shall any work other than making the hazard safe be done on private property.
(c) If the abandoned well or hole is located on private property and the owner or possessor of the property cannot be located or is not known, the governing authority of the county may abate the hazard without the prior approval of the owner or possessor.
(d) The governing authority of the county is authorized to recover the reasonable costs of filling or covering the abandoned well or hole located on private property from the owner or possessor of said property.
(e) The governing authority of the county is authorized to expend county funds to accomplish the purpose of this Code section.
