# § 25-2-12.1. Deputizing of local fire marshals, deputy local fire marshals, and state inspectors as state officers

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Deputy local fire marshal" means any person who is employed by, supervised by, or otherwise assists a local fire marshal and who has been or is seeking to be deputized pursuant to this Code section.
  (2) "Local fire marshal" means any employee or independent contractor of any municipality, county, or other governing authority not adopting the state minimum fire safety standards as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 25-2-12 who is responsible for performing fire safety duties for such municipality, county, or governing authority and who has been or is seeking to be deputized pursuant to this Code section.
  (3) "State inspector" means any person who is employed by any board, commission, or other administrative authority of any state owned and operated or occupied facility, who is responsible for performing fire safety duties within such facility, and who has been or is seeking to be deputized pursuant to this Code section.
(b) Upon application submitted by any governing authority or administrative authority described in subsection (a) of this Code section, the state fire marshal, subject to the approval of the Commissioner and in accordance with this Code section, shall have the authority to deputize local fire marshals, deputy local fire marshals, or state inspectors, as appropriate, as state officers. The application shall be verified by an appropriate official and shall contain the name, address, and current place of employment for each applicant seeking to be deputized and the dates and places of past employment, educational background, training experience, any area of specialization and the basis therefor, and such other information as may be required by the state fire marshal.
(c)
  (1) Prior to deputizing any local fire marshal, deputy local fire marshal, or state inspector, the state fire marshal shall examine the applicant's education, training, and employment experience to ascertain whether the applicant is qualified to perform duties in one or more of the following areas:
    (A) Fire safety inspections;
    (B) Review of plans and specifications; or
    (C) Arson investigations.
  (2) If the state fire marshal is satisfied that the applicant is qualified, he shall recommend to the Commissioner that the applicant be deputized as a state officer to perform the appropriate duties on behalf of the state.
(d) It shall be the responsibility of the governing authority to notify the state fire marshal when a local fire marshal is no longer employed by or accountable to such governing authority. It shall be the responsibility of the local fire marshal to ensure that his deputy local fire marshals perform their appointed duties and to notify the state fire marshal when a deputy local fire marshal is no longer employed under his authority. It shall be the responsibility of the administrative authority to ensure that state inspectors perform their appointed duties and to notify the state fire marshal when a state inspector is no longer employed by such administrative authority.
(e) All deputized local fire marshals, deputy local fire marshals, and state inspectors shall submit monthly reports of their activities to the state fire marshal and shall comply with the administrative procedures of the state fire marshal's office. Any deputized local fire marshal, deputy local fire marshal, or state inspector who is found by the state fire marshal to be negligent in performing his appointed duties or in fulfilling his responsibilities shall be removed from his position as a state officer.
