# § 25-2-9. Authority of state fire marshal and employees to investigate and arrest

(a) Upon the direction of the Commissioner or the request of the sheriff of the county, the chief of police of the jurisdiction, the district attorney of the judicial circuit, or a local fire official, the state fire marshal and any employees of such official shall have the authority to investigate the cause and origin of any fire which occurred in said county, jurisdiction, or judicial circuit.
(b) Upon the direction of the Commissioner or the request of the sheriff of the county, the chief of police of the jurisdiction, the district attorney of the judicial circuit, or a local fire official, the state fire marshal and any employees of such official shall have the authority to investigate and enforce any laws provided for within this title or any regulations promulgated under this title.
(c) Personnel employed and authorized by the state fire marshal shall have the power to make arrests for criminal violations established as a result of investigations. Such personnel shall hold certification as a peace officer from the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council and shall have the power to execute arrest warrants and search warrants for criminal violations and to arrest, upon probable cause and without warrant, any person found violating any of the provisions of applicable criminal laws. Authorized personnel empowered to make arrests pursuant to this Code section shall be empowered to carry firearms as authorized by the state fire marshal in the performance of their duties. It shall be unlawful for any person to resist an arrest authorized by this Code section or to interfere in any manner, including abetting or assisting such resistance or interference, with personnel employed by the state fire marshal in the duties imposed upon such personnel by law.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 614,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 70,§ 1, eff. 5/29/2003.
