# § 31-2-3. Board of Community Health reconstituted; powers, functions, and duties; terms of board members; vacancies; removal; chairperson; expenses

(a) There is reconstituted the Board of Community Health, as of July 1, 2009, which shall establish the general policy to be followed by the Department of Community Health. The powers, functions, and duties of the Board of Community Health as they existed on June 30, 2009, are transferred to the reconstituted Board of Community Health effective July 1, 2009. The board shall consist of nine members appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate.
(b) Board members in office on June 30, 2009, shall serve out the remainder of their respective terms and successors to these board seats shall be appointed in accordance with this Code section. Thereafter, all succeeding appointments shall be for three-year terms from the expiration of the previous term.
(c) Vacancies in office shall be filled by appointment by the Governor in the same manner as the appointment to the position on the board which becomes vacant, and the appointment shall be submitted to the Senate for confirmation at the next session of the General Assembly. An appointment to fill a vacancy other than by expiration of a term of office shall be for the balance of the unexpired term.
(d) Members of the board may be removed from office under the same conditions for removal from office of members of professional licensing boards provided in Code Section 43-1-17.
(e) There shall be a chairperson of the board elected by and from the membership of the board who shall be the presiding officer of the board.
(f) The members of the board shall receive a per diem allowance and expenses as shall be set and approved by the Office of Planning and Budget in conformance with rates and allowances set for members of other state boards.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2009.
