# § 47-14-77. Service for which no credit received for retirement purposes

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, a clerk may not receive credit for retirement purposes for any service performed as a clerk prior to six months from the time application is made for membership in the fund.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, a clerk may not receive credit for retirement purposes for deputy clerk service or for military service unless such credits are sought at the time of application for membership in the fund.
(c) No member who first or again becomes a member on or after September 1, 2009, and who is subject to the provisions of Code Section 15-6-50 shall be entitled to include, for any purpose under this chapter, service during which he or she was not in compliance with the training requirements of subsection (c) of such Code section.
(d)
  (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, and except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a clerk who first or again becomes a member of this retirement fund on or after July 1, 2010, shall not be entitled to receive credit for any purpose for prior service as a deputy clerk.
  (2) Any person who is serving as chief deputy clerk on July 1, 2010, and who, without a break in service, became the clerk of the same court may receive creditable service for such service as provided in Code Section 47-14-70 by making application to the board of trustees in such manner as the board deems appropriate and paying to the board of trustees an amount determined by the board of trustees to be sufficient to cover the full actuarial cost of granting such creditable service. Such application and payment shall be made not later than six months after such person became a clerk of the court.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 453,§ 1, eff.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 176,§ 1, eff. 6/1/2009.
