# § 47-14-70. Eligibility for retirement benefits; additional or partial retirement benefits; election of spousal benefits

(a) A member with at least 20 years of service shall receive retirement benefits of $1,700.00 per month upon retirement, provided that at least 12 years of such service shall have been served as a clerk, and the member must have served continuously as a clerk for the four years immediately preceding the member's retirement. Subject to the restrictions set out in this subsection, in computing such service, a member also may include service as a deputy clerk of the superior court and not more than four years of service as a member of the armed forces of the United States on active duty during any period of time in which the United States was engaged in an armed conflict, regardless of whether a state of war had been declared by Congress, provided that no service as a member of the armed forces of the United States shall be deemed as service for purposes of obtaining retirement benefits under this chapter if such service has or will be used in the determination of the member's eligibility for retirement benefits or allowances from any other state or federal retirement program, excluding social security. A clerk of the superior court may not include service for eligibility purposes for years in which the clerk has not completed the training requirements set out in paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of Code Section 15-6-50. No member who is subject to the provisions of Code Section 15-6-50 shall be entitled to include, for purposes of eligibility to receive a benefit under this chapter, service during which he or she was not in compliance with the training requirements of subsection (c) of such Code section.
(b) If a member is eligible to retire under subsection (a) of this Code section but does not retire and continues to serve as clerk, he or she shall be entitled to receive, upon retirement, the amount to which he or she would have been entitled under subsection (a) of this Code section; and, in addition, for each year of service beyond the required 20 years, he or she shall receive an additional 5 percent of the amount he or she would be entitled to under subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c)
  (1) In lieu of the retirement benefits provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, a member, upon retirement, may elect spousal benefits. If such election is made, then the amount of the benefits paid to the member shall be computed so as to be actuarially equivalent to the monthly retirement payment which would have been paid to the member under subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section, as applicable. Such actuarial equivalence shall be computed on the interest rate and mortality basis approved from time to time by the board, the age of the member, and, if applicable, the age of his or her spouse as of the date benefits are to commence. After the member's death, the member's surviving spouse shall receive a monthly sum during the lifetime of the surviving spouse equal to 50 percent of the amount which the member would have received had the member elected the full benefits provided under subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section. In order to be eligible for such benefits, the surviving spouse shall have been married to the member for at least six years immediately preceding the member's death. Such benefits shall not commence until after the surviving spouse reaches 55 years of age.
  (2) If a member elects spousal benefits under paragraph (1) of this subsection and subsequently the member's spouse predeceases the member or a final judgment of complete divorce between the member and the member's spouse is entered, the member may, in writing on forms prescribed by the board and subject to approval by the board, revoke the election for spousal benefits under paragraph (1) of this subsection and thereafter receive during the member's lifetime a monthly retirement benefit commencing on the first day of the month following the date on which the board approves such revocation, but not for any period prior to such date.
(d) A member with at least 16 years of service either as a clerk or deputy clerk shall receive retirement benefits of $1,360.00 per month upon retirement, provided that at least eight years of such service shall have been served as a clerk, and the member must have served continuously as a clerk for the four years immediately preceding the member's retirement. No other type of service shall be counted toward such retirement benefits.
(e) A member with at least 12 years of service either as a clerk or deputy clerk shall receive retirement benefits of $1,020.00 per month upon retirement, provided that at least eight years of such service shall have been served as a clerk, and the member must have served continuously as a clerk for the four years immediately preceding the member's retirement. No other type of service shall be counted toward such retirement benefits.
(f) Any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, all members who retire on or after April 1, 1976, for whatever reason and who otherwise meet the requirements for retirement benefits under either subsection (d) or (e) of this Code section shall be entitled to an additional benefit based on service in excess of the minimum required for such retirement benefits, provided that such service is of the kind for which credit toward retirement benefits would be given under subsection (d) or (e) of this Code section. The amount of the retirement benefit shall be based on the ratio that the total number of years served bears to the minimum number of years required for benefits under subsection (d) or (e) of this Code section, as appropriate. For example, the following table is illustrative of the additional benefits computation under this Code section: Years of Service at RetirementBenefits Received13Thirteen-twelfths of the benefits provided in subsection (e) of this Code section14Fourteen-twelfths of the benefits provided in subsection (e) of this Code section15Fifteen-twelfths of the benefits provided in subsection (e) of this Code section17Seventeen-sixteenths of the benefits provided in subsection (d) of this Code section18Eighteen-sixteenths of the benefits provided in subsection (d) of this Code section19Nineteen-sixteenths of the benefits provided in subsection (d) of this Code section
(g) No person shall receive credit toward the retirement benefits set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section for any service performed after February 15, 1952, unless payment for the period covered by such service has been made to the board. No person shall be eligible for the benefits provided in this Code section unless his or her official duties have terminated and he or she files an application for benefits within 90 days, or as soon thereafter as possible, from the termination of his or her official duties.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 502,§ 1, effective onJuly 1, 2014, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law"; otherwise, this Act shall not become effective and shall be automatically repealed in its entirety onJuly 1, 2014, as required by subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-50.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 497, § 6, eff. 7/1/2002.
See 2002 Ga. Laws 497, § 8.
