# § 47-14-51. Payments to the fund from fees collected in certain civil actions and for recording of instruments pertaining to real estate; records; audit of records; use of sums remitted; failure of clerk to remit

(a) In addition to all other legal costs, the sum of $1.00 shall be charged and collected in each civil suit, action, case, or proceeding filed in the superior courts or in any other court of this state in which a clerk eligible for membership in this retirement fund is clerk, including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all adoptions, charters, petitions for review, applications by a personal representative for leave to sell or reinvest, trade name registrations, applications for change of name, and all other proceedings of a civil nature, filed in the superior courts or other such courts.
(b) In addition to all other legal costs, the sum of 50¢ shall be charged and collected in addition to any other fees or costs for the processing of all instruments pertaining to real estate filed in the superior courts.
(c) The clerks shall collect the fees provided for in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, and the fees so collected shall be remitted to the board on a monthly basis or at such time as the board may provide. Such amounts shall be due on the first day of the month following the month in which they were collected but shall be deemed timely if received by the board on or before the fifteenth day of the month; provided, however, that for purposes of calculating late payment penalties, the due date shall be the first day of the month. It shall be the duty of the clerks to keep accurate records of the amounts due the board under this Code section, and such records may be audited by the board at any time. The sums remitted to the board under this Code section shall be used for the purposes provided in this chapter.
(d) If the clerk or other authority whose duty it is to collect and remit moneys to the fund under subsection (a) of this Code section fails to remit such moneys within 60 days of the date on which such remittal is due, such moneys shall be delinquent; and there shall be imposed, in addition to the principal amount due, a specific penalty in the amount of 5 percent of the principal amount per month for each month during which the funds continue to be delinquent, provided that such penalty shall not exceed a total of 25 percent of the principal due. In addition to such penalty, interest shall be charged on the delinquent moneys at the rate of 6 percent per annum from the date such moneys became delinquent until they are paid. All moneys which have not been paid to the fund within 60 days of the due date shall be delinquent. By affirmative vote of all members, the board, upon the payment of the delinquent moneys together with interest and for good cause shown, may waive the specific penalty otherwise charged under this subsection.
(e) The sum of $1.00 shall be paid out of the fees charged and collected pursuant to Title 15 in each civil suit, action, case, or proceeding filed in the superior courts or in any other court of this state in which a clerk eligible for membership in this retirement fund is clerk and shall be remitted to the board as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section. Such fees shall include, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, all adoptions, charters, petitions for review, applications by a personal representative for leave to sell or reinvest, trade name registrations, applications for change of name, and all other proceedings of a civil nature filed in the superior courts or other such courts.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-37, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 175,§ 3, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 687,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 497, § 5, eff. 7/1/2002.
See 2002 Ga. Laws 497, § 8.
