# § 40-4-45. Sale of farm tractors

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Certificate of origin" means the evidence of origin of title of a farm tractor from the manufacturer. It shall show the following information:
    (A) The name and the address of the manufacturer;
    (B) The serial number of the farm tractor; and
    (C) The year, make, and model of the farm tractor.
  (2) "Dealer" means a person engaged in buying, selling, trading, or exchanging farm tractors who has an established place of business in this state.
  (3) "Farm tractor" means any self-propelled vehicle having more than 15 horsepower designed and used primarily as a farm implement for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of husbandry.
  (4) "Person" means a natural person, firm, partnership, association, or corporation.
  (5) "Serial number" means the number or letters, or both, placed on a farm tractor by stamping thereon or by affixing a plate thereto by the manufacturer for the purpose of identifying the tractor.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any dealer to sell, trade, or exchange any farm tractor in this state which was manufactured after July 1, 1970, unless:
  (1) The original serial number is stamped upon or affixed to the farm tractor; and
  (2) The certificate of origin is presented to the purchaser, or to the person who otherwise receives the farm tractor through an exchange or trade with the dealer, at the time the sale, trade, or exchange is completed.
(c) Any person violating any provision of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
