# § 40-4-3. Vehicle identification numbers required

(a)New passenger cars and components manufactured within state. After January 1, 1997, new passenger cars, truck chassis with features designed for specialized requirements of wreckers, passenger car engines, and transmissions, as specified in this article, manufactured within this state and intended for sale to the general public within this state, shall be required to have placed upon them vehicle identification numbers and component identification numbers. The vehicle identification number shall not be the same as the vehicle identification number of any other passenger car or truck chassis manufactured by the same manufacturer. The component identification number shall not be the same as the component identification number for any other like component manufactured by the same manufacturer but may be the same as the vehicle identification number if the component is installed as original equipment in the passenger car or truck chassis.
(b)New passenger cars sold within state. After January 1, 1997, no new passenger car or truck chassis with features designed for specialized requirements of a wrecker shall be sold to the general public in this state unless such passenger car shall bear a vehicle identification number, which shall not be the same as the vehicle identification number of any other passenger car made by the same manufacturer.
(c)New components sold within state. After January 1, 1967, no new passenger car engine or passenger car transmission shall be sold to the general public in this state unless it shall bear an identification number. The component identification number shall not be the same as the identification number for any other like passenger car component made by the same manufacturer but may be the same as the vehicle identification number if the particular component has been installed as original equipment in the passenger car prior to its sale to the general public.
