# § 36-9-5. Erection, repair, and furnishing of county buildings; storage of county documents

(a) It is the duty of the county governing authorities to erect or repair, when necessary, their respective courthouses and jails and all other necessary county buildings and to furnish each with all the furniture necessary for the different rooms, offices, or cells.
(b) The county buildings shall be erected and kept in order and repaired at the expense of the county under the direction of the county governing authority which is authorized to make all necessary contracts for that purpose.
(c)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "county document" means:
    (A) Records documenting property rights, deeds, and wills; and
    (B) Tax records documenting ownership of property and the latest valuations of property.
  (2) A county officer, the county board of tax assessors, or any other officer of the county having the responsibility or custody of any county documents set forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall, at night or when the county office is closed, keep such county documents:
    (A) In a fireproof safe or vault;
    (B) In fireproof cabinets;
    (C) On microfilm, pursuant to the standards set forth in Article 6 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, only if a security copy has been sent to the Georgia State Archives;
    (D) At a location not more than 100 miles from the county in a data storage and retrieval facility approved by the county governing authority within the State of Georgia which is in a building or facility which is in compliance with the fire safety standards applicable to archives and record centers as established by the National Fire Protection Association in Standard No. 232, as such standard was adopted on August 11, 1995. If documents are stored outside the county where the documents were created, the government entity shall bear all costs of transporting such documents back to the county of origin for purposes of responding to requests under Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, relating to inspections of public records. Such documents shall be made available to the requester; or
    (E) On any other electronic imaging medium that facilitates retrieval of such documents via electronic means, provided that such medium enables conversion of such documents to future electronic imaging technologies and provided that such custodian creates a daily computer-based backup of all archival documents stored on such medium.
  (3) It is the duty of the county governing authorities to furnish the necessary fireproof equipment, microfilming equipment and supplies, or some other safe facility for such county documents.
  (4) On and after January 1, 1985, county documents shall be stored only in accordance with the provisions of this subsection. The local fire marshal in each county shall monitor the various county offices in the county to assure compliance with the provisions of this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 599,§ I-1-32, eff. 7/1/2012.
