# § 3-7-42. Calling of special elections upon presentation of petitions by voters; rules and regulations; frequency; procedure for calling and conduct of elections for purpose of nullifying previous election results; approval of licenses

(a) Upon the presentation of a petition to the election superintendent of a county or municipality, which petition must be signed by at least 25 percent of the registered voters of such county or municipality who were qualified to vote at the general election immediately preceding the presentation of the petition, the election superintendent shall call a special election at least 30 days prior to the date of the election and shall publish the notice of the call of the election in the official gazette of the county or, in the case of a municipal election, in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipality once a week for two weeks preceding the election. The purpose of the election provided for in this Code section shall be to determine if the sale of distilled spirits in private clubs, as provided by this chapter, shall be allowed.
(b) Each election held pursuant to this Code section shall be held according to the same rules and regulations and subject to the same procedures provided for elections held pursuant to Code Section 3-7-41.
(c) No election under this Code section shall be held within two years after the date of the declaration of the result of a previous election held under this Code section.
(d) In any county or municipality which has at any time held an election in accordance with this Code section resulting in approval of the sale of distilled spirits in private clubs, the election superintendent of the county or municipality, upon a petition signed by at least 25 percent of the registered, qualified voters of the political subdivision concerned, shall proceed to call another election in the same manner as provided in Code Section 3-7-41 for the purpose of nullifying the result of the previous election. No election under this subsection shall be held within two years after the date of the declaration of the result of a previous election held under this Code section.
(e) The local governing authority must approve any license within its jurisdiction before issuance of the license.
