# § 15-16-20. Minimum annual salary; increase; operating expenses

(a)
  (1) Any other law to the contrary notwithstanding, the minimum annual salary of each sheriff in this state shall be fixed according to the population of the county in which he or she serves, as determined by the United States decennial census of 2010 or any future such census; provided, however, that such annual salary shall be recalculated in any year following a census year in which the Department of Community Affairs publishes a census estimate for the county prior to July 1 in such year that is higher than the immediately preceding decennial census. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, each such sheriff shall receive an annual salary, payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of the sheriff's county, of not less than the amount fixed in the following schedule: PopulationMinimum Salary0 - 5,999 ............................................................$ 50,132.726,000 - 11,889 ............................................................55,952.3711,890 - 19,999 ............................................................64,255.1920,000 - 28,999 ............................................................70,753.1129,000 - 38,999 ............................................................77,294.3639,000 - 49,999 ............................................................83,750.5150,000 - 74,999 ............................................................90,246.7475,000 - 99,999 ............................................................93,314.37100,000 - 149,999 ............................................................96,381.99150,000 - 199,999 ............................................................99,812.27200,000 - 249,999 ............................................................103,266.39250,000 - 299,999 ............................................................113,005.67300,000 - 399,999 ............................................................126,199.09400,000 - 499,999 ............................................................131,099.43500,000 or more ............................................................136,011.72
  (2)
    (A) Whenever the state employees subject to compensation plans authorized and approved in accordance with Code Section 45-20-4 receive a cost-of-living increase or general performance based increase of a certain percentage or a certain amount, the amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection and in Code Section 15-16-20.1, or the amounts derived by increasing each of said amounts through the application of longevity increases pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, where applicable, shall be increased by the same percentage or same amount applicable to such state employees. If the cost-of-living increase or general performance based increase received by state employees is in different percentages or different amounts as to certain categories of employees, the amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and in Code Section 15-16-20.1, or the amounts derived through the application of longevity increases, shall be increased by a percentage or an amount not to exceed the average percentage or average amount of the general increase in salary granted to the state employees. The Office of Planning and Budget shall calculate the average percentage increase or average amount increase when necessary. The periodic changes in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and in Code Section 15-16-20.1, or the amounts derived through the application of longevity increases, as authorized by this paragraph shall become effective on the first day of January following the date that the cost-of-living increases received by state employees become effective; provided, however, that if the cost-of-living increases or general performance based increases received by state employees become effective on January 1, such periodic changes in the amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and in Code Section 15-16-20.1, or the amounts derived through the application of longevity increases, as authorized by this paragraph shall become effective on the same date that the cost-of-living increases or general performance based increases received by state employees become effective.
    (B) The amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in this subsection shall not be increased by any state cost-of-living or general performance based increases that have been applied or are effective prior to January 1, 2020. Any state cost-of-living or general performance based increases effective on or after January 1, 2020, shall be calculated as provided in this Code section.
  (3) The county governing authority may supplement the minimum annual salary of the sheriff in such amount as it may fix from time to time; but no sheriff's compensation supplement shall be decreased during any term of office. Any prior expenditure of county funds to supplement the sheriff's salary in the manner authorized by this paragraph is ratified and confirmed. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall prohibit the General Assembly by local law from supplementing the annual salary of the sheriff.
(b) The amounts provided in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Code section and Code Section 15-16-20.1, as increased by paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section, shall be increased by multiplying said amounts by the percentage which equals 5 percent times the number of completed four-year terms of office served by any sheriff after December 31, 1976, effective the first day of January following the completion of each such period of service.
(c) The minimum salaries provided for in this Code section shall be considered as salary only. Expenses for deputies, equipment, supplies, copying equipment, and other necessary and reasonable expenses for the operation of a sheriff's office shall come from funds other than the funds specified as salary in this Code section.
(d) This Code section shall not be construed to reduce the salary of any sheriff in office on July 1, 1991; provided, however, that successors to such sheriffs in office on July 1, 1991, shall be governed by the provisions of this Code section. All local legislation in effect on July 1, 1971, or enacted thereafter affecting compensation for sheriffs of the various counties shall be of full force and effect except where the same provides for a salary lower than provided in this Code section, in which event this Code section shall prevail.
(e) In addition to any salary or fees now or hereafter provided by law, the governing authority of each county is authorized to provide, as an operating expense of the sheriff's office and payable from county funds, a monthly vehicle allowance to the sheriff of that county when the sheriff's personally owned vehicle is used in the carrying out of the duties of the sheriff's office. If a vehicle allowance is so provided, it shall be in an amount determined by agreement among the budget officer of the county, as provided in Chapter 81 of Title 36, the county governing authority, and the sheriff.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 10,§ 1, eff. 4/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 543,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 310,§ 6, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-16, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 649,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 291, § 12, eff. 1/1/2002.
