# § 15-16-27. Deposit of cash bonds and reserves of professional bondspersons in interest-bearing accounts; disposition of interest

(a) Unless transferred to the appropriate clerk of court, the sheriff shall deposit cash bonds held by the sheriff in one or more interest-bearing trust accounts in investments authorized by Code Section 36-80-3 or by Chapter 83 of Title 36.
(b) The financial institution in which the funds are deposited shall remit, after service charges or fees are deducted, the interest generated by such funds directly to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority in accordance with the provisions of subsections (c) through (i) of Code Section 15-6-76.1 for distribution to the Georgia Public Defender Council. With each remittance, the financial institution shall send a statement showing the name of the county, deposits and withdrawals from the account or accounts, interest paid, service charges or fees of the bank or other depository, and the net remittance.
(c) In counties where the service charges or fees of the bank or depository would exceed the interest received from funds subject to this Code section, the sheriff shall be exempt from subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section. In such counties, the sheriff shall send a written notice to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 74,§ 8-6, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 729,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 32, § 6, eff. 12/31/2003.
