# § 48-16A-4. Development and administration of program; waiver of penalties; duration of program; forms

(a) Upon the adoption of a resolution or ordinance by the governing authority of each local taxing jurisdiction for which a local collection official collects delinquent taxes indicating that governing authority's desire to participate in the property tax amnesty program, the administering governing authority shall be authorized to develop and administer a one-time property tax amnesty program as provided in this chapter. The county governing authority shall be authorized to include the state's delinquent tax in the property tax amnesty program. Such administering governing authority shall be authorized to waive, in whole or in part, all penalties or interest or both with respect to outstanding ad valorem tax liabilities for all tax years ending or transactions occurring on or before December 31, 1993. The terms and conditions of such waiver shall be specified in the resolution or ordinance adopted by such administering governing authority and may include a delegation of authority to the local collecting official of the authority to make such waiver, in whole or in part, on a case-by-case basis. The administering governing authority shall provide for the necessary forms for the filing of property tax amnesty applications and returns.
(b) The local collection official shall, upon the voluntary filing of a return to the official responsible for the receiving of property tax returns and the remission of ad valorem taxes owed by any taxpayer, if required, waive all penalties and interest that are assessed or subject to being assessed for outstanding ad valorem tax liabilities for all tax years ending or transactions occurring on or before December 31, 1993. Such waiver shall be in accordance with the terms of the resolution or ordinance of the administering governing authority.
(c) Any property tax amnesty program conducted under the authority of this chapter shall begin by October 31, 1994, and shall be completed no later than December 31, 1994, and shall apply to all taxpayers owing ad valorem taxes, penalties, or interest. The program shall apply to outstanding ad valorem tax liabilities for all tax years ending on or before December 31, 1993. Property tax amnesty tax return forms shall be in a form prescribed by the administering governing authority.
