# § 3-2-11. Penalties for failure to file reports or returns or to pay tax or fee; procedure for assessment of taxes due, penalties, and interest

(1) When any person required to file a report as provided by this title fails to file the report within the time prescribed, he shall be assessed a penalty of $50.00 for each failure to file.
(2) In the event the commissioner determines, upon inspection of the invoices, books, and records of a licensed wholesale dealer or importer or from any other information obtained by him or his authorized agents, that the licensed wholesale dealer or importer has not paid the proper tax or the proper amount of taxes, the wholesale dealer or importer shall be assessed for the taxes due. After assessment, the person assessed shall be provided with notice and an opportunity for a hearing as provided for contested cases by Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(3) When any person fails to pay any tax or license fee due as provided by this title, the person shall be assessed a penalty the same as that provided for in Code Section 48-2-44.
(4) When any person fails to file a return, files a false or fraudulent return, or when a tax deficiency or any part of a tax deficiency is due to a fraudulent intent to evade any tax imposed or authorized by this title, the person shall be assessed a specific penalty of 50 percent of the tax due.
(5) When any person fails to pay the tax or any part of the tax due as provided by this title, the person shall pay interest on the unpaid tax at the rate of 1 percent per month from the time the tax became due until paid or at the rate specified in Code Section 48-2-40, whichever is greater. Interest shall be computed on a monthly basis for any portion of a month during which payment is delinquent.
(6) All penalties and interest imposed by this title shall be payable to and collected by the commissioner in the same manner as if they were a part of the taxes imposed by this title.
