# § 3-2-7.1. State-wide centralized application process; uniformity; procedures; regulation

(a) On or before January 1, 2021, the department shall develop and implement a state-wide, centralized application process for initial applications and renewals for licenses and permits for retailers in order to provide for uniform and streamlined practices with respect to such application and renewal process that both the department and any local governing authority of any county or municipality that issues licenses or permits to retailers shall be required to use. Such process shall provide for such licenses and permits for retailers that may be issued by the department and by the governing authority of any county or municipality to be applied for and renewed online. The department in developing and implementing such process shall consider input from retailers, local governments, and the associations that represent them.
(b) The department shall prescribe uniform procedures and forms for the initial application and renewal for licenses and permits for retailers to be used in the state-wide, centralized application process and shall provide for the local governing authority of any county or municipality to provide electronic forms to be added to such process for any additional information that is necessary in order to determine if a local license or local permit may be issued or renewed that such local governing authority demonstrates substantially differs from that requested through the procedures and forms developed by the department, such as, but not limited to, any distance requirements.
(c) The state-wide, centralized application process shall ensure that any initial application or renewal is sent simultaneously upon completion to the department and the appropriate local governing authority; provided, however, that the department may require that a valid local license or permit be issued prior to granting a license or permit.
(d) The state-wide, centralized application process shall provide for the remittance and reporting of all fees for initial applications and renewals for licenses and permits for retailers and may do so by requiring the applicant to pay the department and the local governing authorities of the county or municipality separately at the time the initial application or renewal is submitted.
(e) The department shall administer the state-wide, centralized application process and shall provide access to the necessary authorized users.
(f) The commissioner shall adopt rules and regulations necessary to implement and administer the provisions this Code section.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 558,§ 1, eff. 8/3/2020.
