# § 3-2-13. Issuance of refunds or credits for taxes paid

(a) The commissioner may issue credits for taxes paid by or due from a wholesaler when it is shown to the commissioner's satisfaction that any of the following events has occurred:
  (1) Alcoholic beverages have been received by the wholesaler through an error in shipment and the alcoholic beverages are returned to the shipper prior to any sale by the wholesaler in this state;
  (2) Alcoholic beverages ordered by the wholesaler have been destroyed in transit prior to entry into the wholesaler's warehouse or storage area;
  (3) Alcoholic beverages which are unfit for consumption upon receipt have been received by the wholesaler and the alcoholic beverages are returned to the shipper or destroyed prior to any sale by the wholesaler in this state;
  (4) Alcoholic beverages have been destroyed while in the possession of a wholesaler within the state by an act of God, such as fire, flood, lightning, wind, or other natural calamity;
  (5) Wines have been sold by the wholesaler for delivery and consumption outside the state, provided the sale and delivery shall in all respects comply with the requirements of Code Section 3-6-26.1; or
  (6) Taxes were paid under a statute expressly held to be unconstitutional by a court of last resort and the payments were made under protest and the ground of the protest was the same as the basis for the ruling of unconstitutionality by the court of last resort.
(b) No person shall receive a credit for taxes paid in any case where an amount equal to the amount of taxes paid has been charged to or paid by any purchaser of the person seeking a refund or credit. When an applicant is issued a credit for taxes paid, in every case where an amount equal to the amount of taxes paid has been charged to or paid by any purchaser of the applicant, the applicant shall refund or credit to the purchaser or customer an amount equal to the credit allowed by the commissioner.
(c) In the event that the commissioner issues a credit under this Code section to a person who has or will have insufficient tax liabilities to the State of Georgia against which to offset the credit, the commissioner shall issue a refund to such person for the unusable portion of the credit.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 510,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2006.
