# § 3-2-7. Expiration and renewal of licenses generally; continuation of operations by licensee pending final approval or disapproval of application for renewal; penalty for late application for renewal; temporary permits

(a)
  (1) Except as otherwise specifically provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection or elsewhere in this title, all licenses issued pursuant to this title shall expire on December 31 of each year and application for renewal shall be made annually on or before November 1.
  (2) On and after July 1, 2013, licenses for retailers and retail dealers shall be issued for a 12 month period to be determined by the commissioner and provided by regulation. Applications for renewal of licenses for retailers and retail dealers shall be made not less than 60 nor more than 90 days prior to expiration.
(b) Any licensee making proper application, with all supporting documents, for a license to operate during the following year and having filed the application prior to the renewal date specified in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be permitted to continue to operate pending final approval or disapproval of the licensee's application for the following year if final approval or disapproval is not granted prior to the day in which the license is set to expire. The effective date and the expiration date of the license shall be clearly marked on the license.
(c) Any person holding any license issued pursuant to this title who fails to file a proper application for a similar license for the following year, with the proper fee accompanying the application, on or before the renewal date specified in subsection (a) of this Code section and who files an application after such date shall be required to pay, in addition to the license taxes imposed by this title, an additional amount equal to one-half the amount required for the license for which application is made.
(d) Persons making initial applications for licenses issued pursuant to this title, after properly filing all required documents, including a valid local license, may be authorized by the commissioner to operate pursuant to a temporary permit which shall be issued under such regulations and in such form as the commissioner may deem appropriate. No right or property shall vest in any applicant by virtue of the issuance of such permit. The commissioner may impose a prelicense investigative fee upon persons making initial application for licenses issued pursuant to this title, which fee shall not exceed $100.00. No such fee shall be refundable.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 697,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
