# § 3-2-14. Limitations on credit; application; action for recovery of credit; setoff of unpaid taxes against credit

(a) No credit for taxes paid on alcoholic beverages in payment of taxes on alcoholic beverages shall be allowed unless an application for credit is filed with the commissioner within 90 days from the date payment is received by the commissioner. If, in the opinion of the commissioner, an application for credit of taxes paid pursuant to this title contains a false statement, the application shall be denied. When an applicant is indebted to the state or an applicant is in violation of this title, the commissioner shall decline to approve the credit until the applicant has complied with the laws of this state. In no event shall interest be allowed on any refund or credit for taxes paid on alcoholic beverages. Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed so as to allow for a credit or refund of any license fee lawfully due or paid under this title.
(b) Each application for credit shall be filed in writing in the form and containing such information as the commissioner may reasonably require. The commissioner or his delegate shall consider information contained in the application, together with such other information as may be available, and shall approve or disapprove the application and notify the applicant of his action. Any applicant whose claim is denied by the commissioner or his delegate or whose claim is not decided by the commissioner or his delegate within one year from the date of filing the claim shall have the right to bring an action for a credit in the Superior Court of Fulton County. No action or proceeding for the recovery of a credit shall be commenced before the expiration of one year from the date of filing the application unless the commissioner or his delegate renders a decision on the application within that time, nor shall any action or proceeding be commenced after the occurrence of the earlier of (1) the expiration of one year from the date the claim is denied, or (2) the expiration of two years from the date the application was filed. The time for filing an action for the recovery of a credit may be extended for such period as may be agreed upon in writing between the applicant and the commissioner during the period authorized for bringing an action or any extension thereof. In the event any application is approved and the taxpayer has not paid other state taxes which have become due, the commissioner may set off the unpaid taxes against the credit. When the setoff authorized in this Code section is exercised, the credit shall be deemed granted and the amount of the setoff shall be considered for all purposes as a payment toward the particular tax debt which is being set off. Any excess credit properly allowable under this article which remains after the setoff has been applied may be credited to the taxpayer.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 510,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2006.
