# § 50-37-7. Requirements for state agencies

(1) The director shall be authorized to promulgate any rules, regulations, stipulations, and policies necessary to carry out the terms and provisions of this Code section regarding contracting and procurement procedures for state agencies. Any rules, regulations, and policies as prescribed by the director shall be published, and state agencies shall be furnished with copies of the same. The director may fix, charge, and collect reasonable fees for any administrative support and technical assistance or other services provided by the director under this paragraph;
(2) The authority shall provide technical assistance to state agencies contracting for energy conservation measures and engage in other activities considered appropriate by the authority for promoting and facilitating guaranteed energy savings performance contracts by state agencies. The director shall develop model contractual and related documents for use by state agencies. Prior to entering into a guaranteed energy savings performance contract, any contract or lease for third-party financing, or any combination of such contracts, a state agency shall submit such proposed contract or lease to the director for review and approval;
(3) With regard to the authority's procedures for awarding multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contracts, the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission may establish a total multiyear contract value based upon the Governor's revenue estimate for subsequent fiscal years and other information as the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission may require. In setting the multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contract authority, the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission shall take into consideration the known and anticipated obligations of the state agencies proposing to enter into multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contracts, including, but not limited to, any multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contracts the state agencies have entered into previously. The Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission may set a total multiyear contract value authority for the authority each fiscal year and may, during the fiscal year, revise such contract value authority as necessary as determined by the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission. Any multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contract entered into by state agencies that is not in compliance with the multiyear contract value authority set by the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission shall be void and of no effect;
(4) At the beginning of each fiscal year, a governmental unit's appropriations shall be encumbered for the estimated payments for multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contract work to be performed in the appropriation fiscal year. Payment for multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contract work performed pursuant to contract in any fiscal year other than the current fiscal year shall be subject to appropriations by the General Assembly. Multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contracts shall contain a schedule of estimated completion progress, and any acceleration of this progress shall be subject to the approval of the authority, provided funds are available. State agencies shall have the right to terminate without further obligation any multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contract, provided that the cancellation is subject to the termination provisions of the multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contract, if the state agency determines that adequate funds will not be available for all of the payment obligations of the state agency. The state agency's determination regarding the availability of funds for its obligations shall be conclusive and binding on all parties to the contract. In the event of termination of any contract, the contractor shall be given a written notice of termination at least 60 days before completion of scheduled work for which funds are available. In the event of termination, the contractor shall be paid for the work already performed in accordance with the contract specifications;
(5) The provisions of paragraph (4) of this Code section shall be incorporated verbatim in all multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contracts;
(6) The provisions of this Code section shall not apply to energy efficiency contracts awarded by the authority prior to July 1, 2010. No multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contracts shall be entered into under the provisions of this Code section until the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission has established the total multiyear contract value authority for the current and future fiscal years and adopted such fiscal policies regarding multiyear guaranteed energy savings performance contracts authorized under this Code section; and
(7) The authority shall approve any guaranteed energy savings performance contract containing the provisions of subsection (d) of Code Section 50-37-4, regarding improvements not causally connected to an energy conservation measures, or subsection (e) of Code Section 50-37-4, regarding facility alterations required to properly implement other energy conservation measures.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 50, eff. 5/13/2011.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 669,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
