# § 33-59-5. Filing of contracts and disclosure statements with the Commissioner; approval or disapproval

(a) No person may use any form of life settlement contract in this state unless it has been filed with and approved, if required, by the Commissioner in a manner that conforms with the filing procedures and any time restrictions or deeming provisions, if any, for life insurance forms, policies, and contracts.
(b) No insurer may, as a condition of responding to a request for verification of coverage or in connection with the transfer of a policy pursuant to a life settlement contract, require that the owner, insured, provider, or life settlement broker sign any form, disclosure, consent, waiver, or acknowledgment that has not been expressly approved by the Commissioner for use in connection with life settlement contracts in this state.
(c) A person shall not use a life settlement contract form or provide to an owner a disclosure statement form in this state unless first filed with and approved by the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall disapprove a life settlement contract form or disclosure statement form if, in the Commissioner's opinion, the contract or provisions contained therein fail to meet the requirements of Code Sections 33-59-8, 33-59-9, 33-59-11, and 33-59-15 or are unreasonable, contrary to the interests of the public, or otherwise misleading or unfair to the owner. At the Commissioner's discretion, the Commissioner may require the submission of advertising material.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 93,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 326,§ 1, eff. 11/5/2005.
