# § 33-59-10. Lender-financed premiums using policy as collateral; disclosures and certifications

(a) In addition to other questions an insurance carrier may lawfully pose to a life insurance applicant, insurance carriers may inquire in the application for insurance whether the proposed owner intends to pay premiums with the assistance of financing from a lender that will use the policy as collateral to support the financing.
(b) If, as described in paragraph (11) of Code Section 33-59-2, the loan provides funds which can be used for a purpose other than paying for the premiums, costs, and expenses associated with obtaining and maintaining the life insurance policy and loan, the application shall be rejected as a violation of the prohibited practices in Code Section 33-59-13.
(c) If the financing does not violate Code Section 33-59-13 in this manner, the insurance carrier:
  (1) May make disclosures, including, but not limited to, disclosures such as the following, to the applicant and the insured, either on the application or an amendment to the application to be completed no later than the delivery of the policy: "If you have entered into a loan arrangement where the policy is used as collateral and the policy changes ownership at some point in the future in satisfaction of the loan, the following may be true:
    (A) A change of ownership could lead to a stranger owning an interest in the insured's life;
    (B) A change of ownership could in the future limit your ability to purchase future insurance on the insured's life because there is a limit to how much coverage insurers will issue on one life;
    (C) Should there be a change of ownership and you wish to obtain more insurance coverage on the insured's life in the future, the insured's higher issue age, a change in health status, or other factors may reduce the ability to obtain coverage or may result in significantly higher premiums; and
    (D) You should consult a professional adviser since a change in ownership in satisfaction of the loan may result in tax consequences to the owner, depending on the structure of the loan."; and
  (2) May require certifications, such as the following, from the applicant and the insured:
    (A)" I have not entered into any agreement or arrangement providing for the future sale of this life insurance policy;
    (B) My loan arrangement for this policy provides funds sufficient to pay for some or all of the premiums, costs, and expenses associated with obtaining and maintaining my life insurance policy, but I have not entered into any agreement by which I am to receive consideration in exchange for procuring this policy; and
    (C) The borrower has an insurable interest in the insured."

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 93,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 326,§ 1, eff. 11/5/2005.
