# § 33-59-15. Remedies and penalties for violations; procedural issues

(a) In addition to the penalties and other enforcement provisions of this chapter, if any person violates this chapter or any rule or regulation implementing this chapter, the Commissioner may seek an injunction in a court of competent jurisdiction in the county where the person resides or has a principal place of business and may apply for temporary and permanent orders as the Commissioner determines necessary to restrain the person from further committing the violation.
(b) Any person damaged by the acts of any other person in violation of this chapter or any rule or regulation implementing this chapter may bring a civil action for damages against the person committing the violation in a court of competent jurisdiction.
(c) The Commissioner may issue a cease and desist order upon a person who violates any provision of this chapter, any rule, regulation, or order adopted by the Commissioner, or any written agreement entered into with the Commissioner, in accordance with Chapter 2 of this title.
(d) When the Commissioner finds that such an action presents an immediate danger to the public and requires an immediate final order, he or she may issue an emergency cease and desist order reciting with particularity the facts underlying such findings. The emergency cease and desist order shall become effective immediately upon service of a copy of the order on the respondent and shall remain effective for 90 days. If the department begins nonemergency cease and desist proceedings under subsection (a) of this Code section, the emergency cease and desist order shall remain effective, absent an order by an appellate court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50. In the event of a willful violation of this chapter, the trial court may award statutory damages in addition to actual damages in an additional amount up to three times the actual damage award. The provisions of this chapter may not be waived by agreement. No choice of law provision may be utilized to prevent the application of this chapter to any settlement in which a party to the settlement is a resident of this state.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 93,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 326,§ 1, eff. 11/5/2005.
