# § 33-59-7. Examination of licensees and businesses; record retention requirements; examination reports; orders; hearings; confidentiality of examination information; conflict of interest; immunity; investigative authority of the Commissioner

(a) The Commissioner may, when the Commissioner deems it reasonably necessary to protect the interests of the public, examine the business and affairs of any licensee or applicant for a license. The Commissioner may order any licensee or applicant to produce any records, books, files, or other information reasonably necessary to ascertain whether such licensee or applicant is acting or has acted in violation of the law or otherwise contrary to the interests of the public. The expenses incurred in conducting any examination shall be paid by the licensee or applicant.
(b) In lieu of an examination under this chapter of any foreign or alien licensee licensed in this state, the Commissioner may, at the Commissioner's discretion, accept an examination report on the licensee as prepared by the Commissioner for the licensee's state of domicile or port-of-entry state.
(c) Names of and individual identification data for all owners and insureds shall be considered private and confidential information and shall not be disclosed by the Commissioner unless required by law.
(d) Records of all consummated transactions and life settlement contracts shall be maintained by the provider for three years after the death of the insured and shall be available to the Commissioner for inspection during reasonable business hours.
(e)
  (1) Upon determining that an examination should be conducted, the Commissioner shall issue an examination warrant appointing one or more examiners to perform the examination and instructing them as to the scope of the examination. In conducting the examination, the examiner shall use methods common to the examination of any life settlement licensee and should use those guidelines and procedures set forth in an examiners' handbook adopted by a national organization. The Commissioner may also employ such other guidelines as the Commissioner may deem appropriate.
  (2) Every licensee or person from whom information is sought, its officers, directors, and agents shall provide to the examiners timely, convenient, and free access at all reasonable hours at its offices to all books, records, accounts, papers, documents, assets, and computer or other recordings relating to the property, assets, business, and affairs of the licensee being examined. The officers, directors, employees, and agents of the licensee or person shall facilitate the examination and aid in the examination so far as it is in their power to do so. The refusal of a licensee, by its officers, directors, employees, or agents, to submit to examination or to comply with any reasonable written request of the Commissioner shall be grounds for suspension or refusal of or nonrenewal of any license or authority held by the licensee to engage in the life settlement business or other business subject to the Commissioner's jurisdiction. Any proceedings for suspension, revocation, or refusal of any license or authority shall be conducted pursuant to Chapter 2 of this title.
  (3) The Commissioner shall have the power to issue subpoenas, to administer oaths, and to examine under oath any person as to any matter pertinent to the examination. Upon the failure or refusal of a person to obey a subpoena, the Commissioner may petition a court of competent jurisdiction and, upon proper showing, the court may enter an order compelling the witness to appear and testify or produce documentary evidence.
  (4) When making an examination under this Code section, the Commissioner may retain attorneys, appraisers, independent actuaries, independent certified public accountants, or other professionals and specialists as examiners, the reasonable cost of which shall be borne by the licensee that is the subject of the examination.
  (5) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to limit the Commissioner's authority to terminate or suspend an examination in order to pursue other legal or regulatory action pursuant to the insurance laws of this state. Findings of fact and conclusions made pursuant to any examination shall be prima-facie evidence in any legal or regulatory action.
  (6) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to limit the Commissioner's authority to use and, if appropriate, to make public any final or preliminary examination report, any examiner or licensee work papers or other documents, or any other information discovered or developed during the course of any examination in the furtherance of any legal or regulatory action which the Commissioner may, in his or her sole discretion, deem appropriate.
(f)
  (1) Examination reports shall be composed of (A) only facts appearing upon the books, records, or other documents of the licensee, its agents, or other persons examined or as ascertained from the testimony of the licensee's officers or agents or other persons examined concerning the licensee's affairs and (B) such conclusions and recommendations as the examiners find reasonably warranted from the facts.
  (2) No later than 60 days following completion of the examination, the examiner in charge shall file with the Commissioner a verified written report of examination under oath. Upon receipt of the verified report, the Commissioner shall transmit the report to the licensee examined, together with a notice that shall afford the licensee examined a reasonable opportunity of not more than 30 days to make a written submission or rebuttal with respect to any matters contained in the examination report and which shall become part of the report or to request a hearing on any matter in dispute if the Commissioner deems such written submission or rebuttal comments appropriate and consistent with the findings of the examination.
  (3) In the event the Commissioner determines that regulatory action is appropriate as a result of an examination, the Commissioner may initiate any proceedings or actions provided by law.
(g)
  (1) Names and individual identification data for all owners, purchasers, and insureds shall be considered private and confidential information and shall not be disclosed by the Commissioner unless the disclosure is to another regulator or is required by law.
  (2) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all examination reports, working papers, recorded information, documents, and copies thereof produced by, obtained by, or disclosed to the Commissioner or any other person in the course of an examination made under this chapter or in the course of analysis or investigation by the Commissioner of the financial condition or market conduct of a licensee shall be confidential by law and privileged, shall not be subject to the provisions of Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, shall not be subject to subpoena, and shall not be subject to discovery or admissible in evidence in any private civil action. The Commissioner is authorized to use the documents, materials, or other information in the furtherance of any regulatory or legal action brought as part of the Commissioner's official duties. The licensee being examined may have access to all documents used to make the report except documents and work papers that the Commissioner has deemed privileged.
(h)
  (1) An examiner shall not be appointed by the Commissioner if the examiner, either directly or indirectly, has a conflict of interest or is affiliated with the management of or owns a pecuniary interest in any person subject to examination under this chapter. This subsection shall not be construed to preclude automatically an examiner from being:
    (A) An owner;
    (B) An insured in a life settlement contract or insurance policy; or
    (C) A beneficiary in an insurance policy that is proposed for a life settlement contract.
  (2) Notwithstanding the requirements of this subsection, the Commissioner may retain from time to time, on an individual basis, qualified actuaries, certified public accountants, or other similar individuals who are independently practicing their professions even though these persons may from time to time be similarly employed or retained by persons subject to examination under this chapter.
(i)
  (1) No cause of action shall arise nor shall any liability be imposed against the Commissioner, the Commissioner's authorized representatives, or any examiner appointed by the Commissioner for any statements made or conduct performed in good faith while carrying out the provisions of this chapter.
  (2) No cause of action shall arise nor shall any liability be imposed against any person for the act of communicating or delivering information or data to the Commissioner or the Commissioner's authorized representative or examiner pursuant to an examination made under this chapter if the act of communication or delivery was performed in good faith and without fraudulent intent or the intent to deceive. This paragraph shall not abrogate or modify in any way any common law or statutory privilege or immunity heretofore enjoyed by any person identified in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (3) A person identified in paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection shall be entitled to an award of attorney's fees and costs if he or she is the prevailing party in a civil cause of action for libel, slander, or any other relevant tort arising out of activities in carrying out the provisions of this chapter and the party bringing the action was not substantially justified in doing so. For purposes of this subsection, a proceeding is substantially justified if it had a reasonable basis in law or fact at the time that it was initiated.
(j) The Commissioner may investigate suspected fraudulent life settlement acts and persons engaged in the business of life settlements.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 93,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 326,§ 1, eff. 11/5/2005.
