# § 33-59-6. Filing of annual statement with the Commissioner; confidential information

(a)
  (1) Each provider shall file with the Commissioner on or before May 1 of each year an annual statement containing such information as the Commissioner may prescribe by rule or regulation in addition to any other requirements for any policy settled within five years of policy issuance. In addition to any other requirements, the annual statement shall specify the total number, aggregate face amount, and life settlement proceeds of policies settled during the immediately preceding calendar year, together with a breakdown of the information by policy issue year. The annual statement shall also include the names of the insurance companies whose policies have been settled and the life settlement brokers that have settled said policies.
  (2) Such information shall be limited to only those transactions where the insured is a resident of this state and shall not include individual transaction data regarding the business of life settlements or information that there is a reasonable basis to believe could be used to identify the owner or the insured.
  (3) Every provider that willfully fails to file an annual statement as required in this Code section or willfully fails to reply within 30 days to a written inquiry by the Commissioner in connection therewith, shall, in addition to other penalties provided by this chapter, be subject, upon due notice and opportunity to be heard, to a penalty of up to $250.00 per day of delay, not to exceed $25,000.00 in the aggregate, for each such failure.
(b) Except as otherwise allowed or required by law, a provider, life settlement broker, insurance company, insurance producer, information bureau, rating agency or company, or any other person with actual knowledge of an insured's identity shall not disclose the identity of an insured or information that there is a reasonable basis to believe could be used to identify the insured or the insured's financial or medical information to any other person unless the disclosure:
  (1) Is necessary to effect a life settlement contract between the owner and a provider and the owner and insured have provided prior written consent to the disclosure;
  (2) Is necessary to effectuate the sale of life settlement contracts, or interests therein, as investments, provided that the sale is conducted in accordance with applicable state and federal securities law and provided further that the owner and the insured have both provided prior written consent to the disclosure;
  (3) Is provided in response to an investigation or examination by the Commissioner or any other governmental officer or agency or pursuant to the requirements of Code Section 33-59-7;
  (4) Is a term or condition to the transfer of a policy by one provider to another provider, in which case the receiving provider shall be required to comply with the confidentiality requirements of this subsection;
  (5) Is necessary to allow the provider or life settlement broker or its authorized representatives to make contacts for the purpose of determining health status. For the purposes of this paragraph, the term "authorized representative" shall not include any person who has or may have any financial interest in the settlement contract other than a provider, registered life settlement broker, financing entity, related provider trust, or special purpose entity. A provider or life settlement broker shall require its authorized representative to agree in writing to adhere to the privacy provisions of this chapter; or
  (6) Is required to purchase stop-loss coverage.
(c) Nonpublic personal information solicited or obtained in connection with a proposed or actual life settlement contract shall be subject to the provisions applicable to financial institutions under the federal Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, P.L. 106-102 (1999), and all other state and federal laws relating to confidentiality of nonpublic personal information.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 93,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 326,§ 1, eff. 11/5/2005.
