# § 38-2-1067. Court-martial review panel; members; rules and regulations

(a)
  (1) There shall be the court-martial review panel which shall hear appeals of decisions of a court-martial.
  (2) The Governor shall appoint five persons to serve as judges on the court-martial review panel. Four such judges shall be retired commissioned officers of the organized militia or state military force of another state or of the armed forces of the United States or a reserve component thereof and a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia. One such judge shall be a member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia and shall not be a member, former member, or retired member of the organized militia or state military force of another state or of the armed forces of the United States or a reserve component thereof.
  (3) The Governor shall prescribe by regulations issued pursuant to Part 1 of Article 2 of this chapter the convening and administration of the court-martial review panel and the compensation provided to the judges of such panel.
(b)
  (1) An appeal to the court-martial review panel shall only be made after action on the sentence of a court-martial by the convening authority or by another person authorized to take such action as provided for in Code Section 38-2-1060 or after a decision of the convening authority to deny a petition for a new trial as provided for by Code Section 38-2-1073 or pursuant to Code Section 38-2-1062. Such appeals shall be made within 30 days after such action or decision.
  (2) The court-martial review panel shall dispose of each appeal within 90 days of such appeal made thereto. The court-martial review panel shall deliver its decision to the state judge advocate and, within three days, the state judge advocate shall serve a copy of such decision to the accused by statutory overnight delivery. The decision of the court-martial review panel shall be final for purposes of an appeal to the appellate courts of this state on the date that the state judge advocate mails the decision to the accused.
(c) Any party to a proceeding before the court-martial review panel may secure a review of the final decision of the court-martial review panel by appeal in the manner and form provided by law for appeals from the superior courts to the appellate courts of this state.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
