# § 38-2-1049. Depositions

(a) At any time after charges have been signed as provided for in Code Section 38-2-1030, the military judge or summary court-martial officer, with approval of the state judge advocate, may allow a party to take oral or written depositions for good cause.
(b) The party at whose instance a deposition is to be taken shall give to every other party reasonable written notice of the time and place for taking the deposition, and such party may attend and participate in the deposition.
(c) Depositions shall be taken before and authenticated by any military or civil officer authorized by the laws of this state or by the laws of the place where the deposition is taken to administer oaths.
(d) A duly authenticated deposition taken upon reasonable notice to the other parties, so far as otherwise admissible under the rules of evidence, may be read in evidence or, in the case of audiotape, videotape, digital image or file, or similar material, may be played in evidence before any military court, if it appears that:
  (1) The witness resides or is beyond another state in which the court is ordered to sit, or beyond 100 miles from the place of trial or hearing;
  (2) The witness, by reason of death, age, sickness, bodily infirmity, imprisonment, military necessity, nonamenability to process, or other reasonable cause, is unable or refuses to appear and testify in person at the place of trial or hearing; or
  (3) The present whereabouts of the witness are unknown.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
