# § 38-2-1026. Military judge

(a) A military judge shall be detailed to each general and special court-martial by the authority convening a general or special court-martial. The military judge shall preside over each open session of the court-martial to which the military judge has been detailed.
(b) A military judge shall be:
  (1) An active or retired commissioned officer of the organized militia or state military force of another state or of the armed forces of the United States or a reserve component thereof;
  (2) A member in good standing of the bar of the highest court of another state or a member of the bar of a federal court for at least five years; and
  (3) Certified as qualified for duty as a military judge by the judge advocate general of the army, air force, or navy and the state judge advocate.
(c) In the instance when a military judge is not a member of the bar of the highest court of this state, the military judge shall be deemed admitted pro hac vice, subject to filing a certificate with the state judge advocate setting forth such qualifications as provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(d) The military judge of a general or special court-martial shall be designated by the state judge advocate, or a designee, for detail by the convening authority. Neither the convening authority nor any primary staff member of the convening authority shall prepare or review any report concerning the effectiveness, fitness, or efficiency of the military judge so detailed, which relates to performance of duty as a military judge.
(e) Whenever possible, the military judge of a general or special court-martial shall be of the same branch of service as the accused.
(f) No person shall be eligible to act as military judge in a case if that person is the accuser or a witness or has acted as investigating officer or a counsel in the same case.
(g) The military judge of a court-martial shall not consult with the members of the court except in the presence of the accused, trial counsel, and defense counsel and shall not vote with the members of the court.
(h) If no person who meets the qualifications to serve as military judge under this Code section is readily available in the sole discretion of the state judge advocate, a law officer shall be appointed. A law officer may serve in place of a military judge provided he or she meets the qualifications as provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section and is approved for such service, in writing, by the state judge advocate.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
