# § 38-2-152. Assistant adjutants general; eligibility; appointment; duties; compensation; tenure

(a) The Governor shall appoint an assistant adjutant general for army and an assistant adjutant general for air to assist the adjutant general in the discharge and performance of his or her duties. Each of the assistant adjutants general, at the time of appointment, shall be a federally recognized officer with the rank of lieutenant colonel or higher. An officer who has retired or resigned from the Georgia National Guard or any other component of the Army or Air Force shall be eligible for appointment as assistant adjutant general for army or air; provided, however, that the officer shall have served in a federally recognized status in the active Army or Air National Guard or any other component of the Army or Air Force, as appropriate, and attained the rank of lieutenant colonel or higher; and provided, further, that the appointment of the officer shall be within five years after the date of his or her retirement or resignation and prior to his or her attaining age 60. Each of the assistant adjutants general shall have the rank of not less than brigadier general, the specific rank to be determined by the Governor. Each of the officers shall receive the pay and allowances for his or her rank as provided by law for an officer of equivalent rank in the regular armed forces of the United States. In the event of a vacancy in the office of the adjutant general, and until his or her successor is appointed and qualified as provided by law, the assistant adjutant general who is senior in rank shall perform the duties required of the adjutant general in connection with the military division, as provided by law. Assistant adjutants general shall hold no other state office, and they shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor.
(b) The adjutant general may appoint, designate, or detail officers of the National Guard as deputy assistant adjutants general for army and for air who shall perform the military duties assigned by the adjutant general. Deputy assistant adjutants general shall be of field grade or general officer rank, the specific rank to be determined by the adjutant general. Deputy assistant adjutants general shall serve at the pleasure of the adjutant general.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 533,§ 1, eff. 4/11/2012.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 447, § 1, eff. 4/29/2004.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 8.
