# § 38-2-1009. Who may order the arrest or confinement of members

(a) An enlisted member may be ordered into arrest or confinement by any commander in the grade of O-4 or above by an order, oral or written, delivered in person or through any other person who is subject to this article. A commander in the grade of O-4 or above may authorize commissioned officers, warrant officers, petty officers, or noncommissioned officers to order enlisted members of the commanding officer's command, or subject to the commanding officer's authority, into arrest or confinement.
(b) A commissioned officer, a warrant officer, or a civilian subject to this article or to trial thereunder may be ordered into arrest or confinement only by a commanding officer in the grade of O-6 or above to whose authority the person is subject by an order, oral or written, delivered in person or by another commissioned officer. The authority to order such persons into arrest or confinement shall not be delegated.
(c) No person may be ordered into arrest or confinement except for probable cause.
(d) This article shall not limit the authority of persons authorized to apprehend offenders to secure the custody of an alleged offender until proper authority may be notified.
(e) The Governor, or the adjutant general under delegation by the Governor, may by written order, or regulations issued pursuant to Part 1 of Article 2 of this chapter, further limit who may order the arrest or confinement of members.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
