# § 38-2-1071. Execution of sentence extending to dismissal or dishonorable or bad conduct discharge

(a) If the sentence of the court-martial extends to dismissal or a dishonorable or bad conduct discharge and if the right of the accused to appellate review is not waived and an appeal is not withdrawn under Code Section 38-2-1061, that part of the sentence extending to dismissal or a dishonorable or bad conduct discharge shall not be executed until there is a final judgment as to the legality of the proceedings. A judgment as to the legality of the proceedings shall be final in such cases when review is completed by an appellate court as provided for in Code Section 38-2-1067 and is deemed final by the law of this state.
(b) If the sentence of the court-martial extends to dismissal or a dishonorable or bad conduct discharge and if the right of the accused to appellate review is waived or an appeal is withdrawn under Code Section 38-2-1061, that part of the sentence extending to dismissal or a dishonorable or bad conduct discharge shall not be executed until review of the case by the state judge advocate and any action on that review under Code Section 38-2-1064 is completed. Any other part of a court-martial sentence may be ordered executed by the convening authority or other person acting on the case under Code Section 38-2-1060 when so approved under that Code section.
(c) The convening authority may suspend the execution of any sentence or part thereof.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
