# § 38-2-217. Resignations; acts constituting resignation; types of discharge after resignation; resignation of officers who are accountable for military funds or property

(a) A commissioned officer of the organized militia may tender his resignation at any time to the Governor. If the Governor accepts the resignation, the officer shall receive an honorable discharge; but, if the officer tendering his resignation is under arrest or if charges have been preferred against him for the commission of an offense punishable by a court-martial, he may be given a discharge in such form as the Governor may direct.
(b) Enlistment in the regular army, air force, navy, marine corps, space force, or coast guard of the United States shall be deemed a resignation by the person so enlisting of all commissions in the militia held by him or her.
(c) The acceptance of a commission in the organized militia shall be deemed a resignation by the person accepting the same of any other commission held by him in the militia.
(d) Permanent removal from the state of an officer of the organized militia shall be deemed a resignation.
(e) All officers of the organized militia accountable or responsible for military funds or property who tender their resignations or who are deemed to have resigned shall be transferred immediately to an unassigned list pending discharge from such accountability or responsibility. The transfer shall not relieve the officers of their liability until they are discharged therefrom as provided by the laws of the United States and by this chapter and regulations issued pursuant thereto.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 389,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2024.
