# § 38-2-54. Duties, privileges, and immunities

All duties imposed by the military law or other statutes of the state or by regulations issued thereunder upon units, commissioned officers, warrant officers, and enlisted personnel of the organized militia are imposed upon the units, commissioned officers, warrant officers, and enlisted personnel, respectively, of the State Defense Force. All rights, privileges, and immunities conferred by the military law or other statutes of the state or by regulations issued thereunder upon the units, commissioned officers, warrant officers, and enlisted personnel of the Georgia National Guard or of the organized militia are conferred upon the units, commissioned officers, warrant officers, and enlisted personnel, respectively, of the State Defense Force except as otherwise prescribed in this chapter. Such rights, privileges, and immunities include relief from civil or criminal liability for acts done while on duty; rights to pay, allowances, and other compensation; expenses and subsistence; arms, uniforms, and equipment; provision, maintenance, use, and control of armories; eligibility to appointment on the military staff of the Governor; exemption from civil process and from jury duty; right of way; right to wear the uniform and to parade with firearms; and all other rights, privileges, and immunities created by statute or custom not hereinbefore specifically enumerated.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 52,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 933, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
