# § 38-2-1075. Restoration of rights, privileges, and property, in event of remission; administrative discharge; reinstatement

(a) Under such regulations as may be prescribed pursuant to this chapter, all rights, privileges, and property affected by an executed part of a court-martial sentence which has been set aside or disapproved, except an executed dismissal or discharge, shall be restored unless a new trial or rehearing is ordered and such executed part is included in a sentence imposed upon the new trial or rehearing.
(b) If a previously executed sentence of dishonorable or bad conduct discharge is not imposed on a new trial, the Governor may substitute therefor a form of discharge authorized for administrative issuance unless the accused is to serve out the remainder of the accused's enlistment.
(c) If a previously executed sentence of dismissal is not imposed on a new trial, the Governor may substitute therefor a form of discharge authorized for administrative issue, and the commissioned officer dismissed by that sentence may be reappointed by the Governor to such commissioned grade and with such rank as in the opinion of the Governor that former officer would have attained had the former officer not been dismissed. The reappointment of such a former officer shall be without regard to the existence of a vacancy and shall affect the promotion status of other officers only insofar as the Governor may direct. All time between the dismissal and the reappointment shall be considered as actual service for all purposes, including, but not limited to, the right to pay and allowances.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
