# § 38-2-1029. Absent and additional members; not less than six members required; disability of judge

(a) No member of a general or special court-martial shall be absent or excused after the court has been assembled for the trial of the accused unless excused as a result of a challenge, excused by the military judge for physical disability or other good cause, or excused by order of the convening authority for good cause.
(b) Whenever a general court-martial, other than a general court-martial composed of a military judge only, is reduced below six members, the trial shall not proceed unless the convening authority details new members sufficient in number to provide not less than six members. The trial shall proceed with the new members present after the recorded evidence previously introduced before the members of the court has been read to the court in the presence of the military judge, the accused, and counsel for both sides.
(c) Whenever a special court-martial, other than a special court-martial composed of a military judge only, is reduced below six members, the trial shall not proceed unless the convening authority details new members sufficient in number to provide not less than six members. The trial shall proceed with the new members present as if no evidence had been introduced previously at the trial, unless a verbatim record of the evidence previously introduced before the members of the court or a stipulation thereof is read to the court in the presence of the military judge, the accused, and counsel for both sides.
(d) If the military judge of a court-martial composed of a military judge only is unable to proceed with the trial because of physical disability, as a result of a challenge, or for other good cause, the trial shall proceed, subject to any applicable conditions of subparagraph (B) of paragraphs (1) and (2) of Code Section 38-2-1016, after the detail of a new military judge as if no evidence had previously been introduced, unless a verbatim record of the evidence previously introduced or a stipulation thereof is read in court in the presence of the new military judge, the accused, and counsel for both sides.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
