# § 38-2-1043. Statute of limitations

(a) A person charged with desertion or absence without leave in time of armed conflict or war, whether or not declared, or with aiding the enemy or with mutiny shall be tried and punished at any time without limitation.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this article, a person charged with any offense shall not be liable to be tried by court-martial or punished under Code Section 38-2-1015 if the offense was committed more than three years before the receipt of sworn charges and specifications by an officer exercising court-martial jurisdiction over the command or before the imposition of punishment under Code Section 38-2-1015.
(c) Periods in which the accused is absent without authority or fleeing from justice shall be excluded in computing the period of limitation prescribed in this Code section.
(d) Periods in which the accused was absent from territory in which this state has the authority to take the accused into custody, or in which such accused is in the custody of civil authorities or in the hands of the enemy, shall be excluded in computing the period of limitation prescribed in this Code section.
(e)
  (1) If charges or specifications are dismissed as defective or insufficient for any cause and the period of limitation prescribed by this Code section has expired or will expire within 180 days after the date of dismissal of the charges and specifications, trial and punishment under new charges and specifications shall not be barred by the period of limitation prescribed by this Code section if the conditions specified in paragraph (2) of this subsection are met.
  (2) The conditions provided for by paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be that the new charges and specifications shall:
    (A) Be received by an officer exercising summary court-martial jurisdiction over the command within 180 days after the dismissal of the charges or specifications; and
    (B) Allege the same acts or omissions that were alleged in the dismissed charges or specifications or allege acts or omissions that were included in the dismissed charges or specifications.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
