# § 38-2-1002. Applicability; jurisdiction

(a) This article shall apply to all members of the organized militia at all times and in all places when not serving as provided for by Title 10 of the United States Code.
(b)
  (1) Subject matter jurisdiction under this article shall be established if a nexus exists between an offense set forth in Part 10 of this article, except as provided in Code Section 38-2-1111 or 38-2-1112.1, and the organized militia. When a member is in a status as provided for by Title 32 of the United States Code or on state active duty, a rebuttable presumption exists that such nexus is established. As used in this paragraph, the term "state active duty" means full-time duty in the organized militia under an order of the Governor or otherwise issued by authority of law and paid by funds of this state, including travel to and from such duty.
  (2) Courts-martial shall have primary jurisdiction of an offense set forth in Part 10 of this article, except as provided in Code Section 38-2-1111 or 38-2-1112.1.
  (3) A proper civilian court shall have primary jurisdiction of a nonmilitary offense when such act or omission violates both this article and local civilian criminal law, foreign or domestic. In such case, a court-martial may be initiated only after the civilian authority has declined to prosecute or dismissed such charge; provided, however, that jeopardy has not attached.
  (4) Jurisdiction over attempted crimes, conspiracy crimes, solicitation, and accessory crimes shall be determined by the underlying offense.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
