# § 38-2-151. Adjutant general - Duties; records; seal; effect of seal on documentary evidence

(a) The adjutant general shall be chief of staff to the Governor and subordinate only to the Governor in matters pertaining to the Department of Defense and the military and naval affairs of the state.
(b) Whenever the Governor and those who would act in succession to him or her under the Constitution and laws of the state are unable to perform the duties of commander in chief, the adjutant general shall command the militia.
(c) It shall be the duty of the adjutant general:
  (1) To direct the planning and employment of the forces of the organized militia in carrying out their state military mission;
  (2) To establish unified command of state forces whenever they are jointly engaged; and
  (3) To coordinate the military and naval affairs with the emergency management agency of the state.
(d) The adjutant general shall:
  (1) Be custodian of all military records and shall keep the same indexed and available for ready reference;
  (2) Keep an itemized account of all moneys received and disbursed from all sources; and
  (3) Make an annual report to the Governor on the condition of the organized militia and such other matters relating to the Military Division, Department of Defense as the adjutant general shall deem expedient.
(e) The adjutant general shall further perform such duties pertaining to the office as from time to time may be provided by the laws, rules, and regulations of the United States and such as may be designated by the Governor.
(f) The adjutant general shall have a seal of office approved by the Governor, and all copies and papers in the Military Division, Department of Defense which are duly certified and authenticated under the seal shall be evidence in like manner as if the original were produced.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 416,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
