# § 38-2-1112.1. Use, possession, manufacture, distribution, or importation of certain controlled substances; exceptions

(a) Any person subject to this article who wrongfully uses, possesses, manufactures, distributes, imports into the customs territory of the United States, exports from the United States, or introduces into an installation, vessel, vehicle, or aircraft used by or under the control of the armed forces of the United States or of the organized militia a substance described in subsection (b) of this Code section shall be punished as a court-martial may direct.
(b) The substances provided for by subsection (a) of this Code section shall be:
  (1) Opium, heroin, cocaine, amphetamine, lysergic acid diethylamide, methamphetamine, phencyclidine, barbituric acid, and marijuana and any compound or derivative of any such substance;
  (2) Any substance not specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection that is listed on a schedule of controlled substances prescribed by the President for the purposes of the Uniform Code of Military Justice of the armed forces of the United States, 10 U.S.C. Section 801, et seq.; and
  (3) Any other substance not specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection or contained on a list prescribed by the President under paragraph (2) of this subsection that is listed in schedules I through V of the Controlled Substances Act, 21 U.S.C. Section 812.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 38, eff. 5/3/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
