# § 38-2-150. Adjutant general - Eligibility; appointment; compensation; bond

There shall be an adjutant general of the state who shall be appointed by the Governor for a term concurrent with the term of the Governor appointing such person and who shall serve as such at the pleasure of the Governor. The adjutant general shall have not less than the rank of a major general, the specific rank to be determined by the Governor. The adjutant general shall not be less than 30 nor more than 65 years of age. No person shall be eligible to hold the office of adjutant general unless he or she holds or has held a commission of at least the rank of field grade or the equivalent in the organized militia of the state, in the armed forces of the United States, or in a reserve component thereof and shall have served not less than five years in one or more of such services at the time of his or her appointment. The adjutant general shall receive the pay and allowances for his or her rank as provided by law for an officer of equivalent rank in the regular armed forces of the United States. The Governor shall require the adjutant general to give bond to the state, conditioned on the faithful discharge of the duties of the office, in the sum of $10,000.00 with good and sufficient security, to be approved by the Governor. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the adjutant general shall not be subject to the provisions of subsection (e) of Code Section 38-2-279, relating to pay for 18 days' absence and emergency pay.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 8, § 1, eff. 3/9/2001.
