# § 38-2-1057.1. Deferment of sentence

(a) On application by an accused who is under sentence to confinement that has not been ordered executed, the convening authority or, if the accused is no longer under that person's jurisdiction, the person exercising general court-martial jurisdiction over the command to which the accused is currently assigned may, in that person's sole discretion, defer service of the sentence to confinement. Such deferment shall terminate when the sentence is ordered executed. Such deferment may be rescinded at any time by the person who granted it or, if the accused is no longer under that person's jurisdiction, by the person exercising general court-martial jurisdiction over the command to which the accused is currently assigned.
(b)
  (1) In any case in which a court-martial sentences an accused as provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection to confinement, the convening authority shall defer the service of the sentence to confinement, without the consent of the accused, until after the accused has been permanently released to the organized militia by another state, the United States, or a foreign country referred to in that paragraph.
  (2) Paragraph (1) of this subsection shall apply to a person subject to this article who:
    (A) While in the custody of another state, the United States, or a foreign country is temporarily returned by such state, the United States, or a foreign country to the organized militia for trial by court-martial; and
    (B) After the court-martial, is returned to such state, the United States, or a foreign country under the authority of a mutual agreement or treaty, as the case may be.
(c) In any case in which a court-martial sentences an accused to confinement and the sentence to confinement has been ordered executed, but in which review of the case under Code Section 38-2-1067 is pending, the adjutant general may defer further service of the sentence to confinement while that review is pending.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 99,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
