# § 33-6-34. Unfair claims settlement practices

(1) Knowingly misrepresenting to claimants and insureds relevant facts or policy provisions relating to coverages at issue;
(2) Failing to acknowledge with reasonable promptness pertinent communications with respect to claims arising under its policies;
(3) Failing to adopt and implement procedures for the prompt investigation and settlement of claims arising under its policies;
(4) Not attempting in good faith to effectuate prompt, fair, and equitable settlement of claims submitted in which liability has become reasonably clear;
(5) Compelling insureds or beneficiaries to institute suits to recover amounts due under its policies by offering substantially less than the amounts ultimately recovered in suits brought by them;
(6) Refusing to pay claims without conducting a reasonable investigation;
(7) When requested by the insured in writing, failing to affirm or deny coverage of claims within a reasonable time after having completed its investigation related to such claim or claims;
(8) When requested by the insured in writing, making claims payments to an insured or beneficiary without indicating the coverage under which each payment is being made;
(9) Unreasonably delaying the investigation or payment of claims by requiring both a formal proof of loss and subsequent verification that would result in duplication of information and verification appearing in the formal proof of loss form; provided, however, this paragraph shall not preclude an insurer from obtaining sworn statements if permitted under the policy;
(10) When requested by the insured in writing, failing in the case of claims denial or offers of compromise settlement to provide promptly a reasonable and accurate explanation of the basis for such actions. In the case of claims denials, such denials shall be in writing;
(11) Failing to provide forms necessary to file claims within 15 calendar days of a request with reasonable explanations regarding their use;
(12) Failing to adopt and implement reasonable standards to assure that the repairs of a repairer owned by the insurer are performed in a workmanlike manner;
(13) Indicating to a first-party claimant on a payment, draft check, or accompanying letter that said payment is final or a release of any claim unless the policy limit has been paid or there has been a compromise settlement agreed to by the first-party claimant and the insurer as to coverage and amount payable under the contract;
(14) Issuing checks or drafts in partial settlement of a loss or claim under a specific coverage which contain language which releases the insurer or its insured from its total liability;
(15) Failure to comply with any insurer requirement in Chapter 20E of this title, the "Surprise Billing Consumer Protection Act," including:
  (A) The failure to designate whether the healthcare plan is subject to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U.S.C. Sec. 1001, et seq.;
  (B) The failure to directly pay the provider or facility within 15 working days for electronic claims or 30 calendar days for paper claims any moneys due under Code Section 33-20E-4 or 33-20E-5; or
  (C) The failure to pay a resolution organization as required under Code Section 33-20E-16; and
(16) Failure to comply with any insurer requirement relating to emergency services or care in Article 4 of Chapter 11 of Title 31, Article 1 of Chapter 20A of this title, Chapter 20E of this title, Chapter 21A of this title, Code Section 33-24-59.27, and Chapter 30 of this title.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 223,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 833,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 470,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
