# § 7-5-3. Organization, ownership, and control of credit card banks

(1) If the credit card bank is to be organized under the laws of this state, such bank shall be organized as provided in Part 8 of Article 2 of Chapter 1 of this title;
(2) In connection with the application to organize, or to own and control a credit card bank, the applicant shall pay applicable fees established by regulation of the department to defray the costs of the investigation and review of the application;
(3) The shares of a credit card bank shall be owned solely by a domestic lender, a foreign lender, or a holding company;
(4) The credit card bank shall conduct its limited deposit taking business only from a single location in this state;
(5) The credit card bank shall at all times maintain capital stock and paid-in surplus as required by regulatory policies of the department but in no event less than $2 million;
(6) The credit card bank may only engage in the business of soliciting, processing, and making loans pursuant to credit card accounts and conducting such other activities as may be necessary incidents thereto;
(7) The credit card bank may not accept demand deposits or deposits that the depositor may withdraw by check or similar means for payment to third parties or others, and it may not accept savings or time deposits of less than $100,000.00;
(8) The credit card bank must operate in a manner that is not likely to attract customers from the general public in this state to the substantial detriment of other domestic lenders;
(9) The credit card bank shall have, within one year of the date it commences operations, no fewer than 50 employees located in this state devoted to its credit card activities; provided, however, that, where the credit card bank contracts with a qualifying organization for the performance of services incidental to offering credit card activities, the minimum number of employees in this state shall be determined by the commissioner at a level to assure the continued and substantive presence of the credit card bank in this state for the purpose of conducting its corporate affairs and performing the credit underwriting function and such other activities not subject to contract with the qualifying organization as may be incidental to its servicing of credit card accounts; and
(10) A domestic lender is not required to establish a credit card bank to issue credit cards and create credit card accounts.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 7, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 7, eff. 5/13/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 376,§ 23, eff. 7/1/2003.
