# § 10-2-1. Definitions

(1) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Agriculture, the primary constitutional officer of the Georgia Department of Agriculture, charged with the responsibility of enforcing weights and measures laws and regulations.
(2) "Correct," as used in connection with weights and measures, means conformance to all applicable requirements of this chapter.
(3) "Measure" means a volume of standard dry or liquid capacity.
(4) "Package" means any commodity put up or packaged in any manner, in advance of sale, in units suitable for either wholesale or retail sale.
(5) "Person" means and includes individuals, partnerships, firms, corporations, companies, societies, and associations.
(6) "Primary standards" means the physical standards of the State of Georgia which serve as the legal reference from which all other standards and weights and measures are derived.
(7) "Sale from bulk" or "bulk sale" means the sale of commodities when the quantity is determined at the time of the sale.
(8) "Secondary standards" means the physical standards which are traceable to the primary standards through comparisons, using acceptable laboratory procedures, and used in the enforcement of weights and measures laws and regulations.
(9) "Weight," as used in connection with any commodity, means net weight.
(10) "Weights and measures" means all weights and measures of every kind, instruments and devices for weighing and measuring, and any appliance and accessories associated with any or all such instruments and devices.
