# § 16-7-29. Interference with electronic monitoring devices

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term "electronic monitoring device" shall include any device that is utilized to track the location of a person.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and without authority remove, destroy, or circumvent the operation of an electronic monitoring device which is being used for the purpose of monitoring a person who is:
  (1) Complying with a home arrest program as set forth in Code Section 42-1-8;
  (2) Wearing an electronic monitoring device as a condition of bond or pretrial release;
  (3) Wearing an electronic monitoring device as a condition of probation; or
  (4) Wearing an electronic monitoring device as a condition of parole.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly and without authority request or solicit any other person to remove, destroy, or circumvent the operation of an electronic monitoring device which is being used for the purposes described in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(d) Any person who violates this Code section shall be guilty of the offense of tampering with the operation of an electronic monitoring device and shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 347,§ 3-12, eff. 5/4/2023.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 389,§ 4, eff. 5/20/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 16, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 16, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 587, § 2, eff. 1/1/2005.
