# § 16-7-95. Civil forfeiture for violations of article; special provisions for destructive material

(a) As used in this Code section, the terms "proceeds" and "property" shall have the same meanings as set forth in Code Section 9-16-2.
(b) Any property which is, directly or indirectly, used or intended for use in any manner to facilitate a violation of this article and any proceeds are declared to be contraband and no person shall have a property right in them.
(c) Any property subject to forfeiture pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall be forfeited in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9.
(d) On application of the seizing law enforcement agency, the superior court may authorize the seizing law enforcement agency to destroy or transfer to any agency of this state or of the United States which can safely store or render harmless any destructive device, explosive, poison gas, or detonator which is subject to forfeiture pursuant to this Code section if the court finds that it is impractical or unsafe for the seizing law enforcement agency to store such destructive device, explosive, poison gas, or detonator. Such application may be made at any time after seizure. Any destruction authorized pursuant to this subsection shall be made in the presence of at least one credible witness or shall be recorded on film, videotape, or other electronic imaging method. Any such film, videotape, or other electronic imaging method shall be admissible as evidence in lieu of such destructive device, explosive, poison gas, or detonator. The court may also direct the seizing agency or an agency to which such destructive device, explosive, poison gas, or detonator is transferred to make a report of the destruction, take samples, or both.
(e) The provisions of subsection (d) of this Code section shall not prohibit an explosive ordnance technician, other law enforcement officer, or fire service personnel from taking action which will render safe an explosive, destructive device, poison gas, or detonator or any object which is suspected of being an explosive, destructive device, poison gas, or detonator without the prior approval of a court when such action is intended to protect lives or property.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 2-5, eff. 7/1/2015.
