# § 16-7-53.1. Vehicle impoundment for intentionally dumping egregious litter

(a) Whenever a person has been arrested for a violation of Code Section 16-7-52 committed while driving, moving, or operating a vehicle, the arresting law enforcement agency may impound the vehicle that the person was driving, moving, or operating at the time of arrest until such time as the arrestee claiming the vehicle meets the conditions for release in subsection (b) of this Code section or a person other than the arrestee meets the conditions for release in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(b) A vehicle impounded pursuant to this Code section shall not be released unless the person claiming the vehicle:
  (1) Presents a valid driver's license, proof of ownership or lawful authority to operate the motor vehicle, and proof of valid motor vehicle insurance for that vehicle; and
  (2) Is able to operate the vehicle in a safe manner and would not be in violation of Title 40.
(c) A vehicle impounded pursuant to this Code section may be released to a person other than the arrestee only if:
  (1) The vehicle is not owned or leased by the person under arrest and the person who owns or leases the vehicle claims the vehicle and meets the conditions for release in subsection (b) of this Code section; or
  (2) The vehicle is owned or leased by the arrestee, the arrestee gives written permission to another person to operate the vehicle, and the conditions for release in subsection (b) of this Code section are met.
(d) A law enforcement agency impounding a vehicle pursuant to this Code section may charge a reasonable fee for towing and storage of the vehicle. The law enforcement agency may retain custody of the vehicle until that fee is paid.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 538,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2006.
