# § 16-7-5. Home invasion in the first and second degree

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "dwelling" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 16-7-1.
(b) A person commits the offense of home invasion in the first degree when, without authority and with intent to commit a forcible felony therein and while in possession of a deadly weapon or instrument which, when used offensively against a person, is likely to or actually does result in serious bodily injury, he or she enters the dwelling house of another while such dwelling house is occupied by any person with authority to be present therein.
(c) A person commits the offense of home invasion in the second degree when, without authority and with intent to commit a forcible misdemeanor therein and while in possession of a deadly weapon or instrument which, when used offensively against a person, is likely to or actually does result in serious bodily injury, he or she enters the dwelling house of another while such dwelling house is occupied by any person with authority to be present therein.
(d) A person convicted of the offense of home invasion in the first degree shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for life or imprisonment for not less than ten nor more than 20 years and by a fine of not more than $100,000.00. A person convicted of the offense of home invasion in the second degree shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than five nor more than 20 years and by a fine of not more than $100,000.00.
(e) Adjudication of guilt or imposition of sentence for home invasion in any degree may be probated at the discretion of the judge; provided, however, that such sentence shall not be suspended, deferred, or withheld.
(f) A sentence imposed under this Code section may be imposed separately from and consecutive to a sentence for any other offense related to the act or acts establishing the offense under this Code section.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 574,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
