# § 16-7-58. Prohibited placements of posters, signs, and advertisements

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to place posters, signs, or advertisements:
  (1) On any public property or building, unless the owner thereof or the occupier as authorized by such owner has given permission to place such posters, signs, or advertisements on such property; provided, however, that signs within the rights of way of public roads shall be governed by Code Section 32-6-51;
  (2) On any private property unless the owner thereof or the occupier as authorized by such owner has given permission to place such posters, signs, or advertisements on such property; and, provided, further that no municipal, county, or consolidated government may restrict by regulation or other means the length of time a political campaign sign may be displayed or the number of signs which may be displayed on private property for which permission has been granted; or
  (3) On any property zoned for commercial or industrial uses if the placement of such posters, signs, or advertisements conflicts with any zoning laws or ordinances.
(b) Any poster, sign, or advertisement placed in violation of paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Code section is declared to be a public nuisance, and the officials having jurisdiction of the public property or building, including without limitation law enforcement officers, may remove or direct the removal of the same.
(c) Each poster, sign, or advertisement placed in violation of this Code section shall constitute a separate offense.
(d) Any person who violates this Code section shall be punished the same as for littering under Code Section 16-7-43.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 727,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2006.
Renumbered from § 21-2-3 and amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 538,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2006.
Renumbered from § 21-1-1 by 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX11, § 4, eff. 10/1/2001.
Renumbered as § 21-2-3 by 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX11, § 4, eff. 10/1/2001.
Former § 21-2-3 renumbered as § 21-1-1 by 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX11, § 4, eff. 10/1/2001.
See 2006 Ga. Laws 727, § 7.
