# § 16-7-22. Criminal damage to property in the first degree

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Critical infrastructure" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 16-11-220.
  (2) "Electronic means" means any unauthorized transmission of fraudulent or unauthorized data, including data that is self-replicating or self-propagating, and any use of other technology that successfully modifies, alters, damages, destroys, records, or transmits information which disrupts normal operations.
  (3) "Public transportation system" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 16-11-220.
  (4) "Vital public service" includes water, sewerage, drainage, energy, electric, gas, natural gas, telecommunication, internet, cable, navigation, collision avoidance, public transportation systems, railroads, and other services the loss of which would have a debilitating impact on the health, safety, or financial security of the public.
(b) A person commits the offense of criminal damage to property in the first degree when he or she:
  (1) Knowingly and without authority interferes with any property in a manner so as to endanger human life;
  (2) Knowingly and without authority and by either force or violence or by electronic means interferes with the proper operation of any critical infrastructure or any vital public service; or
  (3) Knowingly and without justification causes damage to a building by discharging a firearm while inside a vehicle or after immediately exiting a vehicle.
(c) A person convicted of the offense of criminal damage to property in the first degree shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years; provided, however, that a person convicted of a violation of paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than two nor more than 20 years.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 512,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 30,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
