# § 16-7-53. Penalties for unlawful dumping

(a) Any person who intentionally dumps egregious litter in violation of Code Section 16-7-52 in an amount not exceeding 500 pounds in weight or 100 cubic feet in volume which is not biomedical waste, hazardous waste, or a hazardous substance and not for commercial purposes shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature. For purposes of this subsection, each day a continuing violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation.
(b) Any person who intentionally dumps egregious litter in violation of Code Section 16-7-52 in an amount exceeding 500 pounds in weight or 100 cubic feet in volume which is not biomedical waste, hazardous waste, or a hazardous substance and not for commercial purposes shall upon the first offense be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature. Upon the second and each subsequent offense such person shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $25,000.00 for each violation or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both; provided, however, that the portion of any term of imprisonment exceeding two years shall be probated conditioned upon payment of a fine imposed under this subsection. For purposes of this subsection, each day a continuing violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation.
(c) Any person who intentionally dumps egregious litter in violation of Code Section 16-7-52 in any quantity if the substance is biomedical waste, hazardous waste, or a hazardous substance or if the dumping is for commercial purposes shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $25,000.00 for each violation or imprisoned for not more than five years, or both; provided, however, that the portion of any term of imprisonment exceeding two years shall be probated conditioned upon payment of a fine imposed under this subsection. For purposes of this subsection, each day a continuing violation occurs shall constitute a separate violation.
(d) In addition to the penalties provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, the court may order the violator to remove or render harmless any egregious litter dumped in violation of Code Section 16-7-52, repair or restore property damaged by or pay damages resulting from such dumping, or perform public service related to the removal of illegally dumped egregious litter or to the restoration of an area polluted by such substance.
(e)
  (1) The court shall cause to be published a notice of conviction for each person convicted of violating any provision of this Code section. Such notices of conviction shall be published in the manner of legal notices in the legal organ of the county in which such person resides or, in the case of a nonresident, in the legal organ of the county in which the person was convicted. Such notice of conviction shall contain the name and address of the convicted person; date, time, and place of arrest; and disposition of the case and shall be published once in the legal organ of the appropriate county in the second week following such conviction or as soon thereafter as publication may be made.
  (2) The convicted person for which a notice of conviction is published pursuant to this subsection shall be assessed the cost of publication of such notice, and such assessment shall be imposed at the time of conviction in addition to any other fine imposed pursuant to this Code section.
  (3) The clerk of the court, the publisher of any legal organ which publishes a notice of conviction, and any other person involved in the publication of an erroneous notice of conviction shall be immune from civil or criminal liability for such erroneous publication, provided such publication was made in good faith.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 538,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2006.
