# § 44-3-78. Allocation - Interests in common elements

(a) The declaration shall allocate to each unit depicted on plats or plans that comply with subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 44-3-83 an undivided interest in the common elements. Such allocation may be by percentage, fraction, formula, or any other method which indicates the relative undivided interests in the common elements. If an equal undivided interest in the common elements is allocated to each unit, the declaration may merely so state.
(b) All of the undivided interests in the common elements shall be allocated to the units created by the declaration and shall be subject to reallocation as provided in this article.
(c) If the undivided interests allocated are other than equal, the undivided interest allocated to each unit shall be reflected by a table or provision in the declaration or by an exhibit or schedule accompanying the declaration and recorded simultaneously therewith identifying the units, listing them serially or grouping them together in the case of units to which identical undivided interests are allocated, and setting forth the fraction, percentage, or other statement of undivided interest in the common elements allocated thereto.
(d) Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided by this article, the undivided interest in the common elements allocated to any unit shall not be altered; and any purported transfer, encumbrance, or other disposition of that interest without the unit to which it pertains shall be void.
(e) The common elements shall not be subject to any action for partition except as provided in Code Sections 44-3-98 and 44-3-99.
(f) No undivided interest in the common elements shall be allocated to any unit unless such unit is depicted on plats or plans that comply with subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 44-3-83.
