# § 44-3-174. Public offering statement provided to purchasers; cancellation of sales agreement by purchaser or developer; statement acknowledging receipt

(a) Before transfer of a time-share interval and no later than the date of any sales agreement, the developer shall provide the intended transferee with a copy of the public offering statement and any amendments and supplements thereto. The sales agreement is voidable by the purchaser for seven days, Sundays and holidays excepted, after receipt of the public offering statement or for seven days, Sundays and holidays excepted, after signing any sales agreement, whichever is later. Cancellation is without penalty or obligation, and all payments made by the purchaser before cancellation must be refunded within 30 days after receipt of the notice of cancellation.
(b) In addition to the rights of the developer provided in the sales agreement, up to seven days, Sundays and holidays excepted, after the signing of any sales agreement, the developer may cancel the sales agreement without penalty or obligation to either party. The developer shall return all payments made by the purchaser within 30 days after canceling the agreement and the purchaser shall return all materials received in good condition, reasonable wear and tear excepted.
(c) If a time-share use is being conveyed, a purchaser shall have the right to cancel the transaction at any time after the facilities are no longer available for use.
(d) The rights of cancellation provided for in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Code section shall not be waivable by any purchaser.
(e) Any sales agreement must contain a conspicuous statement as follows: "YOU MAY CANCEL WITHOUT PENALTY OR OBLIGATION THIS SALES AGREEMENT FOR THE PURCHASE OR LEASE OF A TIME-SHARE INTERVAL WITHIN SEVEN DAYS, SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS EXCEPTED, AFTER SIGNING AND RECEIVE A REFUND OF ANY FUNDS PAID. IF YOU DID NOT RECEIVE A PUBLIC OFFERING STATEMENT PRIOR TO SIGNING THIS SALES AGREEMENT, YOU MAY CANCEL THIS SALES AGREEMENT WITHIN SEVEN DAYS, SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS EXCEPTED, AFTER RECEIPT OF A PUBLIC OFFERING STATEMENT. YOU MAY NOT GIVE UP OR WAIVE THIS RIGHT TO CANCEL. IF YOU DECIDE TO CANCEL, YOU MUST NOTIFY THE DEVELOPER IN WRITING WITHIN THE CANCELLATION PERIOD OF YOUR INTENT TO CANCEL BY SENDING NOTICE BY CERTIFIED MAIL OR STATUTORY OVERNIGHT DELIVERY, RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED, TO (insert the name and address of the developer or the developer's agent). YOUR NOTICE WILL BE EFFECTIVE UPON THE DATE YOU SEND IT."
(f) Prospective purchasers receiving a copy of the public offering statement shall sign a conspicuous statement acknowledging receipt of the public offering statement which shall be kept at the principal office of the developer for a period of three years from the date of receipt. Said statement shall read as follows: "I HEREBY ACKNOWLEDGE THAT I HAVE RECEIVED THE PUBLIC OFFERING STATEMENT OF (insert name of project) ON (insert date) AND I UNDERSTAND THAT MY RIGHT TO CANCEL ANY SALES AGREEMENT TO PURCHASE A TIME-SHARE INTERVAL EXPIRES ON (insert date), WHICH IS SEVEN DAYS, SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS EXCEPTED, AFTER SIGNING ANY SALES AGREEMENT OR SEVEN DAYS, SUNDAYS AND HOLIDAYS EXCEPTED, AFTER RECEIPT OF THE PUBLIC OFFERING STATEMENT, WHICHEVER IS LATER."
