# § 44-3-232.1. Right of and procedure for certain property owners to take control of association when declarant fails to meet certain obligations

(a) Notwithstanding and prior to the usual expiration of the period of the declarant's right to control the association pursuant to any property owners' association instruments, the association's articles of incorporation, or the association's bylaws, the right to control may pass to the property owners as provided in this Code section if the declarant fails to do any of the following:
  (1) Incorporate or maintain an annual registration pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 44-3-227;
  (2) Cause the board of directors to be duly appointed and the officers to be elected pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 44-3-227;
  (3) Maintain and make available to owners, upon written request, a list of the names and business or home addresses of the association's current directors and officers;
  (4) Call meetings of the members of the association in accordance with the provisions of the association's bylaws at least annually pursuant to Code Section 44-3-230;
  (5) Prepare an annual operating budget, establish the annual assessment, and distribute such budget and notice of assessment to the owners in accordance with the condominium instruments no later than 30 days after the beginning of the association's fiscal year; or
  (6) Pay property taxes on common property of the association for two or more years.
(b) In the event that the declarant fails to meet one or more of the obligations of this Code section, then any owner, acting individually or jointly with other owners, may send the declarant written notice of the failure to comply with such requirements and provide the declarant a 30 day opportunity to cure the failure; and such notice shall be sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the declarant's principal office. If the declarant fails to cure any or all deficiencies identified in the notice within 30 days of such notice, then any owner, acting individually or jointly with other owners, shall have standing individually, and not solely through a derivative action, to institute an action in the superior court of the county in which any portion of the property owner's association is located in order to obtain a declaratory judgment to grant the owner or owners control of the association by ordering an election and setting the terms thereof, or issuing any other orders appropriate to transfer control of the association. The superior court shall have authority to hold a hearing and issue a summary ruling on said action at any time designated by the court not earlier than 20 days after the service thereof, unless the parties consent in writing to an earlier trial. No discovery shall be had unless ordered by the court for good cause. In addition, the superior court shall be authorized to issue a summary ruling on the conveyance of any intended common areas or other property in the common interest community to the association or other appropriate entity. If the owner or owners prevail in such action, then the superior court shall award to the owner or owners all reasonable attorney's fees and costs incurred for the prosecution of such action. This Code section shall not be the basis for any liability against any party or agent of any party outside of the exclusive remedies provided herein.

## History

Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 173,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2017.
