# § 44-3-79. Allocation - Votes in association; how votes cast; majority vote requirements

(a) The declaration shall allocate a number of votes in the association to each unit depicted on plats or plans that comply with subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 44-3-83. The allocation of such votes may be by percentage, fraction, formula, or any other method which indicates the relative voting power allocated to each unit. If an equal vote is allocated to each unit, the declaration may merely so state. All of the votes in the association shall be allocated among the units depicted on such plats or plans and shall be subject to reallocation as provided in this article.
(b) Since a unit owner may be more than one person, if only one of those persons is present at a meeting of the association or is voting by proxy, ballot, or written consent, that person shall be entitled to cast the votes pertaining to that unit. However, if more than one of those persons is present or executes a proxy, ballot, or written consent, the vote pertaining to that unit shall be cast only in accordance with their unanimous agreement unless the condominium instruments expressly provide otherwise; and such consent shall be conclusively presumed if any one of them purports to cast the votes pertaining to that unit without protest being made immediately by any of the others to the person presiding over the meeting or vote.
(c) The votes pertaining to any unit may, and, in the case of any unit owner not a natural person or persons, shall, be cast pursuant to a proxy or proxies duly executed by or on behalf of the unit owner or, in cases where the unit owner is more than one person, by or on behalf of the joint owners of the unit. No such proxy shall be revocable except as provided in Code Section 14-2-722 or 14-3-724 or by written notice delivered to the association by the unit owner or by any joint owners of a unit. Any proxy shall be void if it is not dated or if it purports to be revocable without such notice.
(d) Except in the case of any condominium of which no part is restricted exclusively to residential use, if 50 percent or more of the votes in the association pertain to 25 percent or less of the condominium units, then in any case where a majority vote is required by the condominium instruments or by this article the requirement for such a majority shall be deemed to include, in addition to the specified majority of the votes, assent by the unit owners of a like majority of the condominium units.
(e) Anything in this Code section to the contrary notwithstanding, no votes in the association shall be deemed to pertain to any condominium unit during such time as the unit owner thereof is the association nor shall any vote be allocated to any condominium unit unless the condominium unit is depicted on plats or plans that comply with subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 44-3-83. Except to the extent otherwise expressly provided or permitted by this article, the votes allocated to any condominium unit shall not be altered.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 535, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
