# § 44-3-82. Assignments and reassignments of limited common elements

(a) All assignments and reassignments of limited common elements shall be made or provided for in the condominium instruments. No limited common element shall be assigned or reassigned except in accordance with this article. No amendment to any condominium instrument shall alter any rights or obligations with respect to any limited common element without the consent of all unit owners whose use of the limited common element is or may be directly affected by the assignment or reassignment, as evidenced by their execution of the amendment, except to the extent that the condominium instruments expressly provided otherwise prior to or simultaneously with the first assignment of the limited common element.
(b) Unless expressly prohibited by the condominium instruments, a limited common element may be reassigned upon written application to the association by the owners of units to which the limited common element appertains and the owners of units to which the limited common element is being reassigned. The association shall immediately prepare and execute an amendment to the declaration reassigning all rights and obligations with respect to the limited common element involved. Such amendment shall be delivered immediately to the owners of the units to which the limited common element appertains and the owners of units to which the limited common element is being reassigned and upon payment by them of all reasonable costs for the preparation, execution, and recordation thereof. The amendment shall become effective when the association and the owners of the units to which the limited common element appertains and the owners of units to which the limited common element is being reassigned have executed and recorded the same. No vote of the unit owners shall be necessary for the amendment provided in this Code section to be executed by the association.
(c) A common element not previously assigned as a limited common element shall be so assigned only pursuant to the declaration. The amendment to the declaration making such an assignment shall be prepared and executed by the association. The amendment shall be delivered to the unit owner or owners to whose unit the assignment is being made upon payment by them of all reasonable costs for the preparation, execution, and recordation thereof. The amendment shall become effective after execution by the association and such unit owner or owners and recordation, and the recordation thereof shall be conclusive evidence that the method prescribed pursuant to the declaration was adhered to. Unless otherwise required by the condominium instruments, no vote of the unit owners shall be necessary for the amendment provided in this Code section to be executed by the association.
