# § 44-3-91. Relocation of boundaries between units; application for relocation; amendment to declaration; plans and plats; recording

(a) If the condominium instruments expressly permit the relocation of boundaries between adjoining units, the boundaries between those units may be relocated in accordance with this Code section and any restrictions and limitations which the condominium instruments may specify.
(b) If the unit owners of adjoining units whose respective boundaries may be relocated desire to relocate those boundaries, the association shall, upon written application of the unit owners and the written consent of the mortgagees of the units involved, immediately prepare and execute appropriate instruments pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of this Code section. No vote of the unit owners shall be necessary for the amendments provided in this Code section to be executed by the association.
(c) An amendment to the declaration shall identify the units involved and shall state that the boundaries between those units are being relocated by agreement of the unit owners thereof. The unit owners of the units involved shall specify in their written application that there shall be no such reallocation or shall specify reallocations between the units involved of the aggregate undivided interest in the common elements, votes in the association, and liabilities for common expenses, or any one or more thereof, pertaining to those units. The amendment to the declaration shall reflect such reallocations or the absence thereof if deemed reasonable by the board of directors. If the reallocations specified by the unit owners of the units involved or the absence thereof is deemed unreasonable by the board of directors, it shall so notify such unit owners and permit them to amend their written application so as to specify reallocations acceptable to the board of directors.
(d) Any plats or plans necessary to show the altered boundaries between the units involved, together with their other boundaries, shall be prepared; and the units depicted thereon shall bear their identifying numbers. The plats or plans shall indicate the new dimensions of the units involved. The plats or plans shall be certified as to their accuracy and compliance with this subsection by a registered land surveyor in the case of any plat and by a registered architect or registered engineer in the case of any plan.
(e) When appropriate instruments have been prepared and executed by the association in accordance with subsections (a) through (d) of this Code section, they shall be delivered immediately to the unit owners of the units involved upon payment by them of all reasonable costs for the preparation, execution, and recordation thereof. The instruments shall become effective when the unit owners of the units involved and the mortgagees of the units have executed them and they have been recorded. The recording of such instruments shall be conclusive evidence that any reallocations made pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section were reasonable and were approved by the board of directors. Upon recordation, the instruments shall effectuate conveyancing by and between the unit owners of the units involved regardless of whether the instruments contain or provide for the use of conveyancing language.
(f) Any relocation of boundaries between adjoining units shall be governed by this Code section and not by Code Section 44-3-92. Code Section 44-3-92 shall apply only to the subdivision of units which are intended to result in the creation of two or more new units in place of the subdivided unit.
