# § 44-3-89. Expansion of condominium; amendment to declaration; expansion of condominium after declarant's right to expand has expired

(a) No condominium shall be expanded except in accordance with the provisions of the declaration and this article.
(b) Any expansion shall be deemed to have occurred at the time of the recordation of plats or plans pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 44-3-83 and an amendment to the declaration effecting the expansion duly executed by the declarant, all other owners or lessees of the additional property being added to the condominium, and all mortgages of the additional property being added to the condominium. The amendment shall contain a legal description by metes and bounds of the additional property being added to the condominium and shall reallocate undivided interests in the common elements, votes in the association, and liabilities for future common expenses all in accordance with the provisions of the declaration.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, a condominium may be expanded by the association at any time after the declarant's right to expand the condominium has expired, provided that the unit owners of units to which two-thirds of the votes in the association appertain, or such higher amount as may be required by the declaration, exclusive of any vote or votes appurtenant to any unit or units then owned by the declarant, consent to an amendment to the governing documents expanding the condominium under the same terms and conditions as set forth in an explicit reservation of an option or options to expand the condominium contained in the condominium instruments as required by subsection (b) of Code Section 44-3-77; and provided, further, that such explicit reservation existed within the first seven years of the recording of the governing documents. The amendment shall contain a legal description by metes and bounds of the additional property being added to the condominium and shall reallocate undivided interests in the common elements, votes in the association, and liabilities for future common expenses all in accordance with the provisions of the declaration. The amendment shall be executed by all owners or lessees of the additional property being added to the condominium and all mortgagees of the additional property being added to the condominium. Additionally, the agreement of the required majority of unit owners to the amendment shall be evidenced by their execution of the amendment. In the alternative, the sworn statement of the president, any vice president, or the secretary of the association attached to or incorporated in an amendment executed by the association, which sworn statement states unequivocally that agreement of the required majority was otherwise lawfully obtained and that any notices required under this article were properly given, shall be sufficient to evidence the required agreement.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 173,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2017.
