# § 44-3-94. Damage or destruction of units; restoration; vote not to restore; allocation of insurance deductible

Unless otherwise provided in the condominium instruments, in the event of damage to or destruction of any unit by a casualty covered under insurance required to be maintained by the association pursuant to Code Section 44-3-107, the association shall cause the unit to be restored. Unless otherwise provided in the condominium instruments, any funds required for such restoration in excess of the insurance proceeds attributable thereto shall be paid by the unit owner of the unit; provided, however, that, in the event that the unit owner of the unit together with the unit owners of other units to which two-thirds of the votes in the association pertain agree not to restore the unit, the unit shall not be restored and the entire undivided interest in the common elements pertaining to that unit shall then pertain to the remaining units, to be allocated to them in proportion to their undivided interests in the common elements, and the remaining portion of that unit shall thenceforth be a part of the common elements. Votes in the association and liability for future common expenses shall thereupon pertain to the remaining units, being allocated to them in proportion to their relative voting strength in the association and liability for common expenses, respectively. To the extent provided for in the condominium instruments, the association may allocate equitably the payment of a reasonable insurance deductible between the association and the unit owners affected by a casualty against which the association is required to insure; provided, however, that the amount of deductible which can be allocated to any one unit owner shall not exceed $5,000.00 per casualty loss covered under any insurance required to be maintained by the association under this article. The existence of a reasonable deductible in any required insurance policy shall not be deemed a failure to maintain insurance as required by this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 289,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 535, § 4, eff. 7/1/2004.
