# § 44-3-227. Incorporation as prerequisite to submission to article; requirements as to corporate documents; board of directors

(a) Prior to submission to this article, the association shall be duly incorporated either as a business corporation under Chapter 2 of Title 14 or as a nonprofit membership corporation under Chapter 3 of Title 14, as amended. The corporate name of the association shall include the word or words "homeowners," "property owners," "community," "club," or "association" and shall otherwise comply with applicable laws regarding corporate names. The articles of incorporation of the association and the bylaws adopted by the association shall contain provisions not inconsistent with applicable law including but not limited to this article or with the declaration as may be required by this article or by the declaration and as may be deemed appropriate or desirable for the proper management and administration of the association. The term "member" shall include a shareholder in the event the association is a business corporation or issues stock. Membership shall continue during the period of ownership by such lot owner.
(b) Prior to the first conveyance of a property owners' association lot, the declarant shall cause the first board directors to be duly appointed, the officers to be elected, and the organization of the association to be effectuated.
(c) True and correct copies of the articles of incorporation and bylaws of the association and all amendments thereto shall be maintained at the principal and the registered offices of the association and at the sales office of the declarant so long as the declarant has the right to control the association pursuant to the instrument; and copies thereof shall be furnished to any lot owner on request upon payment of a reasonable charge therefor.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 535, § 11, eff. 7/1/2004.
