# § 44-3-74. Recording condominium instruments, plats, plans, and encumbrances

(a) The declaration and any amendments thereto shall be entitled to recordation if executed in the manner required for recording deeds to real property. All condominium instruments and any amendments and certifications thereto shall set forth the name of the condominium; the name of the county or counties in which the condominium is located; and, except for the declaration itself, the deed book and page number where the first page of the declaration is recorded or the document number assigned to the declaration upon its recordation. All condominium instruments and all amendments and certifications thereto shall be recorded in every county where any portion of the condominium is located. The recordation shall not require the approval of any county or municipal authority or official except as to the manner of execution prescribed by this Code section.
(b) The clerk of superior court shall continue to maintain any legacy condominium plat books, condominium site plan books, condominium plot plan books, or condominium floor plan books that currently exist either in their current form or in electronic format.
(c) All deeds, mortgages, liens, leases, and encumbrances of any kind affecting any condominium unit or duplicate originals thereof or copies thereof certified by the clerk of superior court in whose office the same are first recorded shall be recorded in all counties in which any part of the submitted property is located.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 44, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 351,§ 9, eff. 1/1/2017.
