# § 44-3-173. Annual reports filed by exchange companies and multilocation developers

(a) An exchange company whose exchange program is offered to purchasers in connection with the offer or disposition of time-share intervals in this state shall, on or before July 1 of each year, file with the secretary of the association for the time-share program in which the time-share intervals are offered or disposed, the information required by paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 44-3-172 with respect to the preceding year. If any of the information supplied fails to meet the requirements of this Code section, the district attorney or Attorney General may undertake enforcement action against the exchange company in accordance with the provisions of this article in either the superior court of the county wherein the time-share accommodations or facilities are located or in the Superior Court of Fulton County. No developer shall have any liability arising out of the use, delivery, or publication by the developer of any information provided to it by the exchange company pursuant to this Code section. Except as provided in this Code section, no exchange company shall have any liability with respect to (1) any representation made by the developer relating to the exchange program or exchange company, or (2) the use, delivery, or publication by the developer of any information relating to the exchange program or exchange company. An exchange company shall only be liable for written information provided to the developer by the exchange company. The failure of the exchange company to observe the requirements of this Code section, or the use by it of any unfair or deceptive act or practice in connection with the operation of the exchange program, shall be a violation of this article.
(b) A multilocation developer which offers or disposes of time-share intervals in this state shall, on or before July 1 of each year, file with the secretary of the association for the time-share program the information required by paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 44-3-172 with respect to the preceding year. If at any time any of the information supplied fails to meet the requirements of this Code section, the district attorney or Attorney General may undertake enforcement action against the multilocation developer in accordance with the provisions of this article in either the superior court of the county wherein the time-share accommodations or facilities are located or in the Superior Court of Fulton County. The failure of a multilocation developer to observe the requirements of this Code section, or the use by it of any unfair or deceptive act or practice in connection with the operation of the exchange program, shall be a violation of this article.
