# § 44-3-92. Subdivision of units; application for subdivision; amendment to declaration; plans and plats; recordation

(a) If the condominium instruments expressly permit the subdivision of any units, the units may be subdivided in accordance with this Code section and any restrictions and limitations which the condominium instruments may specify.
(b) If the unit owner of any unit which may be subdivided desires to subdivide the unit, the association, upon written application of the subdivider, as the unit owner shall henceforth be referred to in this Code section, and the written consent of the mortgagees of the unit, shall immediately prepare and execute appropriate instruments pursuant to subsections (c) and (d) of this Code section. No vote of the unit owners shall be necessary for the amendments provided in this Code section to be executed by the association.
(c) An amendment to the declaration shall assign identifying numbers to the units created by the subdivision of a unit and shall allocate among those units on a reasonable basis acceptable to the subdivider and the board of directors all of the undivided interest in the common elements, votes in the association, and liabilities for common expenses pertaining to the subdivided unit immediately prior to the subdivision. With regard to any limited common elements assigned to the subdivided unit, the units created by the subdivision shall jointly share all rights and shall be liable equally for all obligations so that the total of the assessments therefor equals the total of the common expenses attributable to such limited common elements, except to the extent that the subdivider may have specified in his written application that all or any portion or portions of any limited common element assigned to the subdivided unit should be assigned exclusively to one or more, but less than all, of the units created by the subdivision, in which case the amendment to the declaration shall reflect the desires of the subdivider as expressed in the written application.
(d) Any plats or plans necessary to show the boundaries separating the units created by the subdivision, together with their other boundaries, shall be prepared; and the units created by the subdivision depicted thereon shall bear their identifying numbers. The plats or plans shall indicate the dimensions of the units created by the subdivision. The plats or plans shall be certified as to their accuracy and compliance with this subsection by a registered land surveyor in the case of any plat and by a registered architect or registered engineer in the case of any plan.
(e) When appropriate instruments in accordance with subsections (a) through (d) of this Code section have been prepared and executed by the association, they shall be delivered immediately to the subdivider upon payment by the subdivider of all reasonable costs for the preparation, execution, and recordation thereof. The instruments shall become effective when the subdivider and all mortgagees of the unit have executed them and they have been recorded. The recordation of such instruments shall be conclusive evidence that any reallocations made pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section were reasonable and were approved by the board of directors.
(f) This Code section shall have no application to convertible spaces which shall be governed by Code Section 44-3-88.
