# § 44-3-81. Reallocation of interests in common elements, votes, and liability for common expenses

(a) Interests in the common elements shall not be allocated to any units to be created within any additional property until plats or plans depicting the same are recorded pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 44-3-83. Upon the submission of any additional property, the declarant shall execute and record an amendment to the declaration reallocating undivided interests in the common elements, votes in the association, and liabilities for common expenses in the manner provided in the declaration.
(b) If all of a convertible space is converted into common elements, including, without limitation, limited common elements, the undivided interest in the common elements pertaining to such convertible space shall then pertain to the remaining units and shall be allocated among them in proportion to their undivided interests in the common elements. In the case of the conversion of all or any portion of any convertible space into one or more units or common elements, including, without limitation, limited common elements, the undivided interests in the common elements, the votes in the association, and the liability for common expenses shall be reallocated in the manner provided in the declaration. The declarant shall immediately prepare, execute, and record an amendment to the declaration effecting the reallocation of undivided interests produced thereby.
(c) In the case of a leasehold condominium, upon the expiration or termination of any leasehold or estate for years with respect to any land upon or within which any unit exists, every such unit together with all common elements located upon or within such leasehold or estate for years shall be deemed to have been withdrawn from the condominium unless the declaration provides for the termination of the condominium in such event. The undivided interest in the common elements pertaining to any unit thereby withdrawn from the condominium shall then pertain to the remaining units and shall be allocated among them in proportion to their undivided interests in the common elements. The association shall immediately prepare, execute, and record an amendment to the declaration effecting the reallocation of undivided interests produced thereby. In the case of the reduction of a condominium on account of the expiration or termination of a leasehold or estate for years, all votes attributable to any unit located upon such property immediately prior to such reduction shall thereby be eliminated; in addition, the liability for common expenses pertaining to any such unit shall be allocated to the remaining units in proportion to their relative liabilities for common expenses.
