# § 44-3-87. Conversion condominiums; notice; offer to convey; time periods; rights of tenant

(a) The declarant of a conversion condominium shall deliver notice of the conversion to each tenant in possession of a unit which is subject to this article. The notice must be delivered at least 120 days before the declarant will require the tenant to vacate the unit. The notice must set forth generally the rights of tenants under this Code section. The tenant may not be required by the declarant to vacate the unit at any time during the 120 day period except by reason of nonpayment of rent, waste, or conduct which disturbs other tenants' peaceful enjoyment of the premises, and the terms of the tenancy may not be altered during said period; provided, however, that any notice which, under the terms of such tenancy, is required to be given to prevent the automatic renewal or extension of the term of such tenancy may be given during said period. Failure of the declarant to give notice as required by this Code section shall constitute a defense to an action by the declarant for possession initiated less than 120 days after proper delivery of such a notice.
(b) Within 60 days after delivery of the notice described in subsection (a) of this Code section, the declarant shall deliver to the tenant an offer to convey the unit to the tenant at a specified price and on specified terms. If the tenant fails to deliver to the declarant acceptance of the offer within 60 days after delivery of the offer to the tenant, the declarant may not offer to convey the unit, during the 120 days following the date on which delivery is made of the offer to convey to the tenant, at a price or on terms more favorable to the offeree than the price or terms offered to the tenant, without first delivering the same offer to the tenant, who shall have at least ten days within which to deliver to the declarant acceptance of such offer.
(c) Notices and offers required or permitted to be delivered to a tenant by subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section may be hand delivered to the tenant, hand delivered to the unit, or posted in the United States mail, postage prepaid, or sent by statutory overnight delivery, addressed to the tenant at the address of the unit. Acceptances permitted to be delivered to a declarant by subsection (b) of this Code section may be hand delivered to the declarant, hand delivered to an authorized representative of the declarant, or posted in the United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the declarant at the address specified in the offer made by the declarant. Any notices, offers, or acceptances sent by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, shall be presumed conclusively to have been delivered when posted in the United States mail or delivered to the commercial delivery company, postage and fees prepaid, addressed as provided in this subsection, in which event the postmark date or date of receipt by the commercial delivery company of any such registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery or any receipt related thereto shall be the date of delivery for purposes of this Code section.
(d) Subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section shall not apply to any unit in a conversion condominium if the boundaries of the unit do not substantially conform to the boundaries of the unit before conversion. Subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section shall apply only to tenants who are not in default under valid and subsisting leases with the declarant or a predecessor in title of the declarant and who are in possession of and are actually occupying for residential purposes units within the conversion condominium both at the time of recording of the declaration and at the time the notice provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section are delivered.
(e) Prior to or simultaneously with delivery of the offer of sale of a unit to a tenant as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, the declarant shall deliver to the tenant the items required to be furnished to a prospective purchaser by subsection (b) of Code Section 44-3-111.
(f) If a declarant conveys a unit to a purchaser in violation of subsection (b) of this Code section, recordation of the deed conveying the unit shall extinguish any right a tenant may have under subsection (b) of this Code section to purchase the unit but shall not affect any rights of any person to recover damages from the declarant for a violation of subsection (b) of this Code section.
(g) If the notice of conversion should specify a date by which the unit must be vacated, the notice will also constitute demand for possession pursuant to Code Section 44-7-50.
(h) Nothing in this Code section permits termination of a lease by a declarant in violation of its terms.
(i) The rights and obligations of the declarant and the tenant during any period of extended occupancy by the tenant pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall be the same as the rights and obligations of said persons prior to any such period of extended occupancy.
(j) This Code section shall not apply to any condominium created prior to July 1, 1980, or to the expansion of any such condominium.
