# § 36-92-1. Definitions

(1) "Claim" means any demand against a local government entity for money for a loss caused by negligence of a local government entity officer or employee using a covered motor vehicle while carrying out his or her official duties or employment.
(2) "Covered" motor vehicle means:
  (A) Any motor vehicle owned by the local government entity; and
  (B) Any motor vehicle leased or rented by the local government entity.
(3) "Local government entity" means any county, municipal corporation, or consolidated city-county government of this state. Such term shall not include a local school system.
(4) "Local government officer or employee" means:
  (A) An officer, agent, servant, attorney, or employee of a local government entity; or
  (B) A sheriff, deputy sheriff, or other agent, servant, or employee of a sheriff's office.
(5) "Loss" means personal injury, disease, death, damage to tangible property, including lost wages and economic loss to the person who suffered the injury, disease, or death; pain and suffering; mental anguish; loss of consortium; and any other element of actual damages recoverable in actions for negligence.
(6) "Motor vehicle" means any automobile, bus, motorcycle, truck, trailer, or semitrailer, including its equipment, and any other equipment permanently attached thereto, designed or licensed for use on the public streets, roads, and highways of the state.
(7) "Occurrence" means an accident involving a covered motor vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 254,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 763, § 3, eff. 1/1/2005.
