# § 16-12-35. Applicability of part; penalty for violation

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "some skill" means any presence of the following factors, alone or in combination with one another:
  (1) A learned power of doing a thing competently;
  (2) A particular craft, art, ability, strategy, or tactic;
  (3) A developed or acquired aptitude or ability;
  (4) A coordinated set of actions, including, but not limited to, eye-hand coordination;
  (5) Dexterity, fluency, or coordination in the execution of learned physical or mental tasks or both;
  (6) Technical proficiency or expertise;
  (7) Development or implementation of strategy or tactics in order to achieve a goal; or
  (8) Knowledge of the means or methods of accomplishing a task. The term some skill refers to a particular craft, coordinated effort, art, ability, strategy, or tactic employed by the player to affect in some way the outcome of the game played on a bona fide coin operated amusement machine as defined in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 50-27-70. If a player can take no action to affect the outcome of the game, the bona fide coin operated amusement machine does not meet the "some skill" requirement of this Code section.
(b) Nothing in this part shall apply to a coin operated game or device designed and manufactured for bona fide amusement purposes only which may by application of some skill entitle the player to earn replays of the game or device at no additional cost and to discharge the accumulated free replays only by reactivating the game or device for each accumulated free replay or by reactivating the game or device for a portion or all of the accumulated free plays in a single play. This subsection shall not apply, however, to any game or device classified by the United States government as requiring a federal gaming tax stamp under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code or any item described as a gambling device in subparagraph (B), (C), or (D) of paragraph (2) of Code Section 16-12-20.
(c)
  (1) Nothing in this part shall apply to a crane game machine or device meeting the requirements of paragraph (2) of this subsection.
  (2) A crane game machine or device acceptable for the purposes of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall meet the following requirements:
    (A) The machine or device must be designed and manufactured only for bona fide amusement purposes and must involve at least some skill in its operation;
    (B) The machine or device must reward a winning player exclusively with free replays or merchandise contained within the machine itself and such merchandise must be limited to noncash merchandise, prizes, toys, gift certificates, or novelties, each of which has a wholesale value not exceeding $5.00. A player may be rewarded with both free replays and noncash merchandise, prizes, toys, or novelties for a single play of the game or device as provided in this Code section;
    (C) The player of the machine or device must be able to control the timing of the use of the claw or grasping device to attempt to pick up or grasp a prize, toy, or novelty;
    (D) The player of the machine or device must be made aware of the total time which the machine or device allows during a game for the player to maneuver the claw or grasping device into a position to attempt to pick up or grasp a prize, toy, or novelty;
    (E) The claw or grasping device must not be of a size, design, or shape that prohibits picking up or grasping a prize, toy, or novelty contained within the machine or device; and
    (F) The machine or device must not be classified by the United States government as requiring a federal gaming stamp under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.
(d)
  (1) Nothing in this part shall apply to a coin operated game or device designed and manufactured only for bona fide amusement purposes which involves some skill in its operation if it rewards the player exclusively with:
    (A) Free replays;
    (B) Merchandise limited to noncash merchandise, prizes, toys, gift certificates, or novelties, each of which has a wholesale value of not more than $5.00 received for a single play of the game or device;
    (C) Points, tokens, vouchers, tickets, or other evidence of winnings which may be exchanged for rewards set out in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph or subparagraph (B) of this paragraph or a combination of rewards set out in subparagraph (A) and subparagraph (B) of this paragraph; or
    (D) Any combination of rewards set out in two or more of subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of this paragraph. This subsection shall not apply, however, to any game or device classified by the United States government as requiring a federal gaming stamp under applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue Code or any item described as a gambling device in subparagraph (B), (C), or (D) of paragraph (2) of Code Section 16-12-20.
  (2) A player of bona fide coin operated amusement games or devices described in paragraph (1) of this subsection may accumulate winnings for the successful play of such bona fide coin operated amusement games or devices through tokens, vouchers, points, or tickets. Points may be accrued on the machine or device. A player may carry over points on one play to subsequent plays. A player may redeem accumulated tokens, vouchers, or tickets for noncash merchandise, prizes, toys, gift certificates, or novelties so long as the amount of tokens, vouchers, or tickets received does not exceed $5.00 for a single play.
(e) Any person who gives to any other person money for free replays on coin operated games or devices described in subsection (b), (c), or (d) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(f) Any person owning or possessing an amusement game or device described in subsection (c) or (d) of this Code section or any person employed by or acting on behalf of any such person who gives to any other person money for any noncash merchandise, prize, toy, gift certificate, or novelty received as a reward in playing any such amusement game or device shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(g) Any person owning or possessing an amusement game or device described in subsection (b), (c), or (d) of this Code section or any person employed by or acting on behalf of any such person who gives to any other person money as a reward for the successful play or winning of any such amusement game or device shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature.
(g.1) Any location owner or location operator or person employed by a location owner or location operator who violates subsection (h) or (i) of this Code section for the second separate offense shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years, a fine not to exceed $25,000.00, or both, as well as loss of location license and all other state licenses.
(h) Any gift certificates, tokens, vouchers, tickets, or other evidence of winnings awarded under subsection (c) or (d) of this Code section must be redeemable only at the premises on which the game or device is located. It shall be unlawful for any person to provide to any other person as a reward for play on any such game or device any gift certificate, token, voucher, ticket, or other evidence of winning which is redeemable or exchangeable for any thing of value at any other premises. It shall be unlawful for any person at any premises other than those on which the game or device is located to give any thing of value to any other person for any gift certificate, token, voucher, ticket, or other evidence of winning received by such other person from play on such game or device. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature. This subsection shall not apply to any ticket or product of the Georgia Lottery Corporation.
(i) The merchandise, prizes, toys, gift certificates, novelties, or rewards which may be awarded under subsection (c) or (d) of this Code section may not include or be redeemable or exchangeable for any firearms, alcohol, or tobacco. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature.
(j) Any other laws to the contrary notwithstanding, this part shall not be applicable to the manufacturing, processing, selling, possessing, or transporting of any printed materials, equipment, devices, or other materials used or designated for use in a legally authorized lottery nor shall it be applicable to the manufacturing, processing, selling, possessing, or transporting of any gaming equipment, devices, or other materials used or designated for use only in jurisdictions in which the use of such items is legal. This part shall in no way prohibit communications between persons in this state and persons involved with such legal lotteries or gaming devices relative to such printed materials, equipment, devices, or other materials or prohibit demonstrations of same within this state.
(k) Any person, location owner, or location operator who places, provides, or displays a bona fide coin operated amusement machine and offers it to play for consideration in Georgia in an establishment for which the location owner or location operator is not licensed or in a private residence shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years, a fine not to exceed $25,000.00, or both.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 562,§ 16, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 15,§ 2-1, eff. 4/10/2013.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 16, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX4, § 2, eff. 1/1/2002.
