# § 16-12-102. Definitions

(1) "Harmful to minors" means that quality of description or representation, in whatever form, of nudity, sexual conduct, sexual excitement, or sadomasochistic abuse, when it:
  (A) Taken as a whole, predominantly appeals to the prurient, shameful, or morbid interest of minors;
  (B) Is patently offensive to prevailing standards in the adult community as a whole with respect to what is suitable material for minors; and
  (C) Is, when taken as a whole, lacking in serious literary, artistic, political, or scientific value for minors.
(2) "Knowingly" means having a general knowledge of, or reason to know, or a belief or ground for belief which warrants further inspection or inquiry of both:
  (A) The character and content of any material described in this part which is reasonably susceptible to examination by the defendant; and
  (B) The age of the minor; provided, however, that an honest mistake shall constitute an excuse from liability in this part if the defendant made a reasonable, bona fide attempt to ascertain the true age of such minor.
(3) "Minor" means a person less than 18 years of age.
(4) "Sadomasochistic abuse" means actual or simulated flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is nude, clad in undergarments, a mask or bizarre costume, or the condition of being fettered, bound, or otherwise physically restrained by one so clothed or nude.
(5) "Sexual conduct" means actual or simulated acts of masturbation, homosexuality, sexual intercourse, or physical contact in an act of apparent sexual stimulation or gratification with a person's clothed or unclothed genitals, pubic area, buttocks, or, if such person is female, breasts.
(6) "Sexual excitement" means the condition of human male or female genitals when in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
(7) "Sexually explicit nudity" means a state of undress so as to expose the human male or female genitals, pubic area, or buttocks with less than a full opaque covering, or the showing of the female breast with less than a fully opaque covering of any portion thereof below the top of the nipple, or the depiction of covered or uncovered male genitals in a discernibly turgid state.
