# § 16-12-241. Age restrictions

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly sell, furnish, or cause to be furnished, directly or through another person, any consumable hemp product to any individual under the age of 21 years.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any individual under the age of 21 years to knowingly:
  (1) Purchase, attempt to purchase, or possess any consumable hemp product; or
  (2) Misrepresent his or her identity or age or use any false identification for the purpose of obtaining, or attempting to obtain, any consumable hemp product.
(c)
  (1) The prohibition contained in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not apply with respect to the sale of any consumable hemp product by a person when such person has been furnished with proper identification showing that the individual to whom the consumable hemp product is to be sold or furnished is 21 years of age or older.
  (2) In any case where a reasonable or prudent person could reasonably be in doubt as to whether or not the individual to whom any consumable hemp product is to be sold or furnished is 21 years of age or older, it shall be the duty of the person selling or furnishing such consumable hemp product to request to see and to be furnished with proper identification in order to verify the age of such individual. The failure to make such request and verification in any case where the individual to whom any consumable hemp product is sold or furnished is under the age of 21 years may be considered by the trier of fact in determining whether the person who sold or furnished such consumable hemp product did so knowingly.
(d) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit any individual under the age of 21 years from dispensing, serving, selling, or handling any consumable hemp product as part of employment in any place of business that requires such individual to dispense, serve, sell, or handle consumable hemp products.
(e) Any person who violates this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor; provided, however, that, upon the first conviction of a violation of subsection (b) of this Code section, such person shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500.00 and the court shall, pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of Code Section 17-10-1, allow such person to satisfy such fine through community service as set forth in Article 3 of Chapter 3 of Title 42.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 498,§ 18, eff. 10/1/2024.
