# § 16-12-217. On-demand access to facilities; provision of samples; testing; secured transportation

(a) All licensees shall provide on-demand access to facilities for inspection when requested by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, the commission, or the local law enforcement agency for the jurisdiction in which the facility is located. The commission and the Georgia Drugs and Narcotics Agency may each conduct one annual inspection. Upon request by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, the commission, the Georgia Drugs and Narcotics Agency, or the local law enforcement agency for the jurisdiction in which the facility is located, a licensee shall immediately provide product samples for the purposes of laboratory testing.
(b) Each Class 1 production licensee and Class 2 production licensee shall contract with a laboratory on the commission's approved list of independent laboratories, subject to any requirements set by the commission, for purposes of testing low THC oil and products manufactured by such licensees. Low THC oil and products shall be analyzed for potency, foreign matter, microbial presence, pesticides, heavy metals, and residual solvents. The commission shall establish limits for each item tested to verify that such low THC oil and products meet the requirements of this part. The commission shall promulgate rules and regulations governing the operations of laboratories for the testing of low THC oil and products. The costs of laboratory testing shall be paid by the licensees. Each low THC oil product shall be required to pass all requirements established by the commission before being distributed. Products that do not pass the commission's requirements shall be destroyed by the licensee and proof of such destruction shall be sent to the commission upon request.
(c) This Code section shall not apply to intrafacility transportation of low THC oil or products; provided, however, that licensees engaging in such transportation shall maintain secured transportation and tracking of product delivery.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 141,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 27,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2019.
