# § 16-12-202. Creation of Georgia Access to Medical Cannabis Commission; terms; designation; meetings; vacancy; compensation

(a) There is created the Georgia Access to Medical Cannabis Commission which is assigned to the Secretary of State for administrative purposes only, as prescribed in Code Section 50-4-3. The commission shall consist of seven members who shall be appointed as follows:
  (1) Three members appointed by the Governor;
  (2) Two members appointed by the Lieutenant Governor; and
  (3) Two members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
(b) Members shall serve four-year terms of office. The Governor shall designate one of his or her appointees as the chairperson.
(c) The commission shall meet upon the call of the chairperson or upon the request of three members. The commission shall organize itself as it deems appropriate and may elect additional officers from among its members.
(d) Any vacancy on the commission shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the original appointing authority.
(e) Members of the commission shall serve without compensation but shall receive the same expense allowance per day as that received by a member of the General Assembly for each day such member of the commission is in attendance at a meeting of such commission, plus either reimbursement for actual transportation costs while traveling by public carrier or the same mileage allowance for use of a personal car in connection with such attendance as members of the General Assembly receive. Such expense and travel allowance shall be paid in lieu of any per diem, allowance, or other remuneration now received by any such member for such attendance.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 27,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2019.
