# § 16-12-200. Definitions

(1) "Applicant" means a corporate entity applying for a license pursuant to this article.
(2) "Available capital" means corporate assets that are available to fund business operations in the event a license is awarded pursuant to Part 2 of this article.
(3) "Class 1 production license" means a license to produce and manufacture low THC oil and products issued pursuant to Code Section 16-12-211.
(4) "Class 2 production license" means a license to produce and manufacture low THC oil and products issued pursuant to Code Section 16-12-212.
(5) "Commission" means the Georgia Access to Medical Cannabis Commission created pursuant to Code Section 16-12-202.
(6) "Designated universities" means the University of Georgia and Fort Valley State University.
(7) "Designated university license" means a license issued by the commission pursuant to this article to a designated university to, separately or jointly, produce, manufacture, and purchase low THC oil and products in accordance with this article.
(8) "Dispense" means the sale or provision of low THC oil and products to registered patients by a dispensing licensee.
(9) "Dispensing license" means a specialty license issued by the State Board of Pharmacy or the commission pursuant to Code Section 16-12-206 to dispense low THC oil and products to registered patients.
(10) "Grow" means cultivating and harvesting cannabis for use in producing low THC oil and products.
(11) "Licensee" means any business, or owner of such business, with a valid license issued pursuant to this article.
(12) "Low THC oil" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 16-12-190.
(13) "Manufacture" means to process cannabis to produce low THC oil and products.
(14) "Owner" means any person who directly or indirectly owns, actually or beneficially, or controls 5 percent or greater of interests of the applicant or any licensee. In the event that one person owns a beneficial right to interests and another person holds the voting rights with respect to such interests, then both shall be considered an owner of such interests.
(15) "Product" means low THC oil delivered through an oil, tincture, transdermal patch, lotion, or capsule, except as prohibited by Code Section 16-12-234, but not including any food products infused with low THC oil, including, but not limited to, cookies, candies, or edibles.
(16) "Registered patient" means an individual who is legally authorized to possess and use low THC oil and products pursuant to Code Section 31-2A-18.
(17) "Tracking system" means a seed-to-sale tracking system to track marijuana that is grown, processed, manufactured, transferred, stored, or disposed of and low THC oil and products that are transferred, stored, sold, dispensed, or disposed of pursuant to this article.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 141,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 27,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2019.
