# § 16-12-225. Criminal offenses; penalty

(a) A licensee or licensee's employee who knowingly or willfully encourages, causes, abets, connives, conspires, or aids in the endangerment of patients, trafficking of low THC oil, products, or its manufacturing by-products, or criminal distribution of raw materials and agricultural inputs, including but not limited to seeds, under this part shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not to exceed $100,000.00, imprisonment for not less than five nor more than ten years, or both.
(b) Any person whose acts or omissions of gross, willful, or wanton negligence contribute to or cause the endangerment of patients, trafficking of low THC oil, products, or its manufacturing by-products, or criminal distribution of raw materials and agricultural inputs, including but not limited to seeds, under this part shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature and, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of up to $5,000.00, imprisonment for up to 12 months, or both.
(c) Failure to comply with all other provisions of this part shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500.00 for the first offense. All persons convicted of a second or subsequent offense shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine of up to $1,000.00, imprisonment for up to six months, or both, for each violation.
(d) The provisions of this Code section shall not preclude prosecution and punishment for the commission of any offense otherwise provided by law.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 141,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 27,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2019.
