# § 16-12-20. Definitions

(1) "Bet" means an agreement that, dependent upon chance even though accompanied by some skill, one stands to win or lose something of value. A bet does not include:
  (A) Contracts of indemnity or guaranty or life, health, property, or accident insurance; or
  (B) An offer of a prize, award, or compensation to the actual contestants in any bona fide contest for the determination of skill, speed, strength, or endurance or to the owners of animals, vehicles, watercraft, or aircraft entered in such contest.
(2) "Gambling device" means:
  (A) Any contrivance which for a consideration affords the player an opportunity to obtain money or other thing of value, the award of which is determined by chance even though accompanied by some skill, whether or not the prize is automatically paid by contrivance;
  (B) Any slot machine or any simulation or variation thereof;
  (C) Any matchup or lineup game machine or device, operated for any consideration, in which two or more numerals, symbols, letters, or icons align in a winning combination on one or more lines vertically, horizontally, diagonally, or otherwise, without assistance by the player. Use of skill stops shall not be considered assistance by the player; or
  (D) Any video game machine or device, operated for any consideration, for the play of poker, blackjack, any other card game, or keno or any simulation or variation of any of the foregoing, including, but not limited to, any game in which numerals, numbers, or any pictures, representations, or symbols are used as an equivalent or substitute for cards in the conduct of such game. Any item described in subparagraph (B), (C), or (D) of this paragraph shall be a prohibited gambling device subject to and prohibited by this part, notwithstanding any inference to the contrary in any other law of this state.
(3) "Gambling place" means any real estate, building, room, tent, vehicle, boat, or other property whatsoever, one of the principal uses of which is the making or settling of bets; the receiving, holding, recording, or forwarding of bets or offers to bet; or the conducting of a lottery or the playing of gambling devices.
(4) "Lottery" means any scheme or procedure whereby one or more prizes are distributed by chance among persons who have paid or promised consideration for a chance to win such prize, whether such scheme or procedure is called a pool, lottery, raffle, gift, gift enterprise, sale, policy game, or by some other name. Except as otherwise provided in Code Section 16-12-35, a lottery shall also include the payment of cash or other consideration or the payment for merchandise or services and the option to participate in or play, even if others can participate or play for free, a no skill game or to participate for cash, other consideration, other evidence of winnings, or other noncash prizes by lot or in a finite pool on a computer, mechanical device, or electronic device whereby the player is able to win a cash or noncash prize, other consideration, or other evidence of winnings. A lottery shall also include the organization of chain letter or pyramid clubs as provided in Code Section 16-12-38. A lottery shall not mean a:
  (A) Promotional giveaway or contest which conforms with the qualifications of a lawful promotion specified in paragraph (16) of subsection (b) of Code Section 10-1-393;
  (B) Scheme whereby a business gives away prizes to persons selected by lot if such prizes are made on the following conditions:
    (i) Such prizes are conducted as advertising and promotional undertakings in good faith solely for the purpose of advertising the goods, wares, and merchandise of such business;
    (ii) No person to be eligible to receive such prize shall be required to:
      (I) Pay any tangible consideration to the operator of such business in the form of money or other property or thing of value;
      (II) Purchase any goods, wares, merchandise, or anything of value from such business; or
      (III) Be present or be asked to participate in a seminar, sales presentation, or any other presentation, by whatever name denominated, in order to win such prizes; and
    (iii) The prizes awarded shall be noncash prizes and cannot be awarded based upon the playing of a game on a computer, mechanical device, or electronic device at a place of business in this state;
  (C) Raffle authorized under Code Section 16-12-22.1;
  (D) National or regional promotion, contest, or sweepstakes conducted by any corporation or wholly owned subsidiary or valid franchise of such corporation, either directly or through another entity, provided that, at the time of such promotion, contest, or sweepstakes, such corporation:
    (i) Is registered under the federal Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
    (ii) Has total assets of not less than $100 million; or
  (E) Savings promotion raffle that conforms with the requirements of Code Section 7-1-239.10. The provisions of this part shall not be applicable to games offered by the Georgia Lottery Corporation pursuant to Chapter 27 of Title 50.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 243,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 752,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2012.
Amended by 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX4, § 1, eff. 1/1/2002.
See 2001SP Ga. Laws 2EX4, § 5.
