# § 16-12-204. Nontransferable designated university licenses to produce low THC oil and products; research and reporting of collected information; license revocation

(a) Upon request by a designated university, the commission shall issue nontransferable designated university licenses for the production of low THC oil and products. The licenses granted to designated universities pursuant to this Code section shall be in addition to any licenses issued pursuant to Part 2 of this article. The designated universities shall have the option to be licensed as a production facility, either separately or jointly. The designated universities shall be authorized to contract with private entities to fulfill the terms of the license, including contracting for the production of low THC oil and products. All contracts shall be approved by the commission.
(b) Each designated university may conduct research on marijuana for therapeutic use if such university is licensed as a production facility pursuant to this Code section. Effective January 1, 2020, and annually thereafter, the designated universities shall submit a report to the Senate Health and Human Services Committee and the House Committee on Health and Human Services, to include data and outcomes of the research conducted pursuant to this paragraph.
(c)
  (1) The commission shall collect the following information from each licensee:
    (A) The amount of low THC oil and products produced by the licensee during each calendar year;
    (B) The details of all production costs, including but not limited to seed, fertilizer, labor, advisory services, construction, and irrigation;
    (C) The details of any items or services for which the licensee subcontracted and the costs of each subcontractor directly or indirectly working for the licensee;
    (D) The amount of therapeutic chemicals produced resulting from the low THC oil and products manufactured pursuant to this article;
    (E) The amounts paid each year to the licensee related to the licensee's production of low THC oil and products manufactured pursuant to this article; and
    (F) The amount of low THC oil and products distributed to each dispensing licensee to dispense low THC oil and products in this state during each calendar year.
  (2) The commission shall provide the information collected pursuant to this subsection for the previous calendar year in the form of a written report to the Senate Health and Human Services Committee and the House Committee on Health and Human Services no later than February 1 of each year. The commission shall also make a copy of such report available to the public by posting such report on the commission's website.
(d) The commission may revoke the license of a designated university if it is found by the commission to have violated any of the requirements established pursuant to this article.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 141,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 27,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2019.
