# § 16-12-175. Enforcement actions; collection and report of fines; inspections by law enforcement agencies; annual report

(a) The provisions of this article, inclusive, shall be enforced through actions brought in any court of competent jurisdiction by the prosecuting attorney for the county in which the alleged violation occurred as well as through administrative citations issued by special agents or enforcement officers of the state revenue commissioner. Any fine collected for a violation of said provision shall be paid to the clerk of the court of the jurisdiction in which the violation occurred. Upon receipt of a fine for any violation of said provision, the clerk shall promptly notify the state revenue commissioner of the violation.
(b) The state revenue commissioner, acting through special agents or enforcement officers, shall annually conduct random, unannounced inspections at locations where cigarettes, tobacco products, alternative nicotine products, or vapor products are sold or distributed to ensure compliance with this article. Individuals under the age of 21 years may be enlisted to test compliance with this article; provided, however, that such individuals may be used to test compliance with this article only if the testing is conducted under the direct supervision of such special agents or enforcement officers and written parental consent for any individual under the age of 18 years has been provided. Any other use of individuals under the age of 21 years to test compliance with this article or any other prohibition of like or similar import shall be unlawful, and the person or persons responsible for such use shall be subject to the penalties prescribed in this article. The state revenue commissioner shall prepare annually for submission by the Governor to the secretary of the United States Department of Health and Human Services the report required by Section 1926 of Subpart I of Part B of Title XIX of the federal Public Health Service Act, 42 U.S.C. 300x-26.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 483,§ 1, eff. 7/22/2020.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 491,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 16, eff. 5/13/2011.
