# § 16-12-103. Selling, loaning, distributing, or exhibiting; duties of video game retailers

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to sell or loan for monetary consideration or otherwise furnish or disseminate to a minor:
  (1) Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film, or similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body which depicts sexually explicit nudity, sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse and which is harmful to minors; or
  (2) Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in paragraph (1) of this subsection, or explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse and which, taken as a whole, is harmful to minors.
(b)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to sell or furnish to a minor an admission ticket or pass or knowingly to admit a minor to premises whereon there is exhibited a motion picture, show, or other presentation which, in whole or in part, depicts sexually explicit nudity, sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse and which is harmful to minors or exhibit any such motion picture at any such premises which are not designed to prevent viewing from any public way of such motion picture by minors not admitted to any such premises.
  (2) It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to sell or to furnish to a person under the age of 21 an admission ticket or pass or knowingly to admit a person under the age of 21 to premises whereon there is exhibited a show or performance which is harmful to minors and which, in whole or in part, consists of sexually explicit nudity on the part of one or more live performers; sexual conduct on the part of one or more live performers; or sadomasochistic abuse on the part of one or more live performers.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to falsely represent his or her age to any person mentioned in subsection (a) or subsection (b) of this Code section or to his or her agent with the intent to unlawfully procure any material set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section or with the intent to unlawfully procure such person's admission to any motion picture, show, or other presentation, as set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to make a false representation to any person mentioned in subsection (a) or subsection (b) of this Code section or to his or her agent that he or she is the parent or guardian of any minor or knowingly to make a false representation with respect to the age of another person with the intent to unlawfully procure for such other person any material set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section or with the intent to unlawfully procure such other person's admission to any motion picture, show, or other presentation, as set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(e) It shall be unlawful for any person knowingly to exhibit, expose, or display in public at newsstands or any other business or commercial establishment or at any other public place frequented by minors or where minors are or may be invited as part of the general public:
  (1) Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture, motion picture film, or similar visual representation or image of a person or portion of the human body which depicts sexually explicit nudity, sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse and which is harmful to minors; or
  (2) Any book, pamphlet, magazine, printed matter however reproduced, or sound recording which contains any matter enumerated in paragraph (1) of this subsection, or explicit and detailed verbal descriptions or narrative accounts of sexual excitement, sexual conduct, or sadomasochistic abuse and which, taken as a whole, is harmful to minors.
(f)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term:
    (A) "Video game" means an object or device that stores recorded data or instructions, receives data or instructions generated by a person who uses it, and, by processing the data or instructions, creates an interactive game capable of being played, viewed, or experienced on or through a computer, gaming system, console, or other technology.
    (B) "Video game retailer" means a person who sells or rents video games to the public.
  (2) Every video game retailer shall post a sign providing information to consumers about any video game rating system which appears on a video game offered by such retailer. The sign shall be posted in a conspicuous place within the portion of the establishment dedicated to the display or advertisement of video games. Each video game retailer shall make available to consumers, upon request, written information explaining each such rating system.
  (3) A person violating the provisions of this subsection shall be punished with a civil fine in an amount not less than $250.00 and not more than $500.00 for each violation. Each day in violation of this subsection shall constitute a separate offense.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 392,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
