# § 16-12-127. Prohibition on firearms, hazardous substances, knives, or other devices; penalty; affirmative defenses

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person, with the intention of avoiding or interfering with a security measure or of introducing into a terminal any explosive, destructive device, or hoax device as such terms are defined in Code Section 16-7-80; weapon or long gun if such person is not a lawful weapons carrier as such terms are defined in Code Section 16-11-125.1; hazardous substance as defined by Code Section 12-8-92; or other device designed or modified for the purpose of offense and defense, to:
  (1) Have any such item on or about his or her person; or
  (2) Place or cause to be placed or attempt to place or cause to be placed any such item:
    (A) In a container or freight of a transportation company;
    (B) In the baggage or possessions of any person or any transportation company without the knowledge of the passenger or transportation company; or
    (C) Aboard such aircraft, bus, or rail vehicle.
(b) A person violating the provisions of this Code section shall be guilty of a felony and shall, upon conviction, be sentenced to imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than 20 years, a fine not to exceed $15,000.00, or both. A prosecution under this Code section shall not be barred by the imposition of a civil penalty imposed by any governmental entity.
(c) It is an affirmative defense to a violation of this Code section if a person notifies a law enforcement officer or other person employed to provide security for a transportation company of the presence of such item as soon as possible after learning of its presence and surrenders or secures such item as directed by the law enforcement officer or other person employed to provide security for a transportation company.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 596,§ 13, eff. 4/12/2022.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 643,§ 2-9, eff. 6/4/2010.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 179, § 4, eff. 5/31/2003.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 911, § 5, eff. 6/1/2002.
