# § 16-12-1. Contributing to the delinquency or dependency of a minor

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Delinquent act" means a delinquent act as defined in Code Section 15-11-2.
  (2) "Felony" means any act which constitutes a felony under the laws of this state, the laws of any other state of the United States, or the laws of the United States.
  (3) "Minor" means any individual who is under the age of 17 years who is alleged to have committed a delinquent act or any individual under the age of 18 years.
  (4) "Serious injury" means an injury involving a broken bone, the loss of a member of the body, the loss of use of a member of the body, the substantial disfigurement of the body or of a member of the body, an injury which is life threatening, or any sexual abuse of a child under 16 years of age by means of an act described in subparagraph (a)(4)(A), (a)(4)(G), or (a)(4)(I) of Code Section 16-12-100.
  (5) "Service provider" means an entity that is registered with the Department of Human Services pursuant to Article 7 of Chapter 5 of Title 49 or a child welfare agency as defined in Code Section 49-5-12 or agent or employee acting on behalf of such entity or child welfare agency.
(b) A person commits the offense of contributing to the delinquency or dependency of a minor or causing a child to be a child in need of services when such person:
  (1) Knowingly and willfully encourages, causes, abets, connives, or aids a minor in committing a delinquent act;
  (2) Knowingly and willfully encourages, causes, abets, connives, or aids a minor in committing an act which would cause such minor to be a child in need of services as such term is defined in Code Section 15-11-2; provided, however, that this paragraph shall not apply to a service provider that notifies the minor's parent, guardian, or legal custodian of the minor's location and general state of well-being as soon as possible but not later than 72 hours after the minor's acceptance of services; provided, further, that such notification shall not be required if:
    (A) The service provider has reasonable cause to believe that the minor has been abused or neglected and makes a child abuse report pursuant to Code Section 19-7-5;
    (B) The minor will not disclose the name of the minor's parent, guardian, or legal custodian, and the Division of Family and Children Services within the Department of Human Services is notified within 72 hours of the minor's acceptance of services; or
    (C) The minor's parent, guardian, or legal custodian cannot be reached, and the Division of Family and Children Services within the Department of Human Services is notified within 72 hours of the minor's acceptance of services;
  (3) Willfully commits an act or acts or willfully fails to act when such act or omission would cause a minor to be adjudicated to be a dependent child as such term is defined in Code Section 15-11-2;
  (4) Knowingly and willfully hires, solicits, engages, contracts with, conspires with, encourages, abets, or directs any minor to commit any felony which encompasses force or violence as an element of the offense or delinquent act which would constitute a felony which encompasses force or violence as an element of the offense if committed by an adult;
  (5) Knowingly and willfully provides to a minor any firearm as defined in Code Section 16-11-127.1, any dangerous weapon as defined in Code Section 16-11-121, or any hazardous object as defined in Code Section 20-2-751 to commit any felony which encompasses force or violence as an element of the offense or delinquent act which would constitute a felony which encompasses force or violence as an element of the offense if committed by an adult; or
  (6) Knowingly and willfully hires, solicits, engages, contracts with, conspires with, encourages, abets, or directs any minor to commit any smash and grab burglary which would constitute a felony if committed by an adult.
(c) It shall not be a defense to the offense provided for in this Code section that the minor has not been formally adjudged to have committed a delinquent act or has not been adjudged to be a dependent child or a child in need of services.
(d) A person convicted pursuant to paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be punished as follows:
  (1) Upon conviction of the first or second offense, the defendant shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $1,000.00 or shall be imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both fined and imprisoned; and
  (2) Upon the conviction of the third or subsequent offense, the defendant shall be guilty of a felony and shall be fined not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00 or shall be imprisoned for not less than one year nor more than three years, or both fined and imprisoned.
(d.1) A person convicted pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be punished as follows:
  (1) Upon conviction of an offense which resulted in the serious injury or death of a child, without regard to whether such offense was a first, second, third, or subsequent offense, the defendant shall be guilty of a felony and shall be punished as provided in subsection (e) of this Code section;
  (2) Upon conviction of an offense which does not result in the serious injury or death of a child and which is the first conviction, the defendant shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be fined not more than $1,000.00 or shall be imprisoned for not more than 12 months, or both fined and imprisoned;
  (3) Upon conviction of an offense which does not result in the serious injury or death of a child and which is the second conviction, the defendant shall be guilty of a high and aggravated misdemeanor and shall be fined not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $5,000.00 or shall be imprisoned for not less than one year, or both fined and imprisoned; and
  (4) Upon the conviction of an offense which does not result in the serious injury or death of a child and which is the third or subsequent conviction, the defendant shall be guilty of a felony and shall be fined not less than $10,000.00 or shall be imprisoned for not less than one year nor more than five years, or both fined and imprisoned.
(e) A person convicted pursuant to paragraph (4), (5), or (6) of subsection (b) or paragraph (1) of subsection (d.1) of this Code section shall be guilty of a felony and punished as follows:
  (1) Upon conviction of the first offense, the defendant shall be imprisoned for not less than one nor more than ten years; and
  (2) Upon conviction of the second or subsequent offense, the defendant shall be imprisoned for not less than three years nor more than 20 years.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 604,§ 3-3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 575,§ 2-7, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 4-12, eff. 1/1/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 115,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 674,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 439, § 5, eff. 7/1/2004.
