# § 16-12-210. Powers, duties, and responsibilities of Commission; no undue burden on patients; remission of fees

(a) The commission shall have the following powers, duties, and responsibilities to implement the provisions of this part:
  (1) Issue licenses related to the production, growing, and manufacturing of low THC oil and products in accordance with the provisions of this part;
  (2) Coordinate with the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to implement security plans and enforce the provisions of this part;
  (3) Establish procedures for granting licenses, testing products, and inspecting facilities;
  (4) Establish requirements and procedures to ensure quality control, security, and oversight of all low THC oil and product production in this state, including, but not limited to, conducting testing for purity and dosage levels and verifying that product labels accurately reflect product content. The commission is authorized to contract with private laboratories to perform the functions described in this paragraph;
  (5) Establish procedures and ensure sufficient resources are available to receive and resolve complaints from registered patients;
  (6) Establish applications and forms necessary to carry out the provisions of this part;
  (7) Establish criteria for applicants and licensees as necessary to ensure market stability and adequate supply;
  (8) Provide for the selection, implementation, and oversight of tracking systems;
  (9) Provide oversight of licensee reporting, data collection, and analysis;
  (10) Establish requirements and procedures for marketing and signage; and
  (11) Promulgate rules and regulations and adopt policies and procedures necessary to carry out the provisions of this part.
(b) The commission shall not promulgate any rules or regulations that would unduly burden access to low THC oil or products by registered patients.
(c) All fees collected by the commission shall be remitted to the general fund of the state treasury.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 141,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 27,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2019.
