# § 16-12-207. Establishment of Medical Cannabis Commission Oversight Committee; membership; inspections; provision of information; plan for accredited lab testing; patient and physician input

(a) The General Assembly shall establish a Medical Cannabis Commission Oversight Committee with two members appointed by the Lieutenant Governor and two members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives. Any member of the Medical Cannabis Commission Oversight Committee shall be permitted to inspect any production facility upon request and after reasonable notice is provided to the production facility.
(b) The commission shall promptly provide any document or information requested by the oversight committee that is in its possession, provided that the commission shall not share documents containing data identifying individual patients or physicians, information marked as trade secrets by applicants or licensees, information that in the view of the commission would interfere with an ongoing licensing applicant selection process, or information that in the judgment of the commission would create law enforcement or security risks to the citizens of Georgia.
(c) No later than August 1, 2021, the oversight committee shall recommend to the commission a process and plan for providing accredited lab testing of products produced by licensees and for labeling such products. The commission shall consider the recommendations of the oversight committee in adopting policies, procedures, and regulations regarding such testing and labeling.
(d) The oversight committee may regularly seek input from patients and physicians as to the availability and quality of products produced pursuant to this chapter, and recommend to the commission changes to policies, procedures, and regulations to improve availability and quality. The commission shall consider such recommendations in adopting policies, procedures, and regulations.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 141,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 27,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2019.
