# § 16-12-215. Limitation on locations; advertising or marketing prohibited; information available to physicians

(a) No licensee shall operate in any location, whether for cultivation, harvesting, and processing of marijuana or for processing, manufacturing, packaging, or distributing low THC oil or products, within a 3,000 foot radius of a covered entity, measured from property boundary to property boundary. No dispensing licensee may operate in any location within a 1,000 foot radius of a covered entity, measured from property boundary to property boundary. Notwithstanding the provisions of this subsection, local governments may, via use of existing zoning powers otherwise provided by law, allow dispensing licensees only to locate in places other than those provided in this subsection so long as such modification is needed to allow retail outlets to be established to service registered patients residing within such local jurisdiction. As used in this subsection, the term "covered entity" means a public or private school; an early care and education program as defined in Code Section 20-1A-2; or a church, synagogue, or other place of public religious worship, in existence prior to the date of licensure of such licensee by the commission or State Board of Pharmacy.
(b) No licensee shall advertise or market low THC oil or products to registered patients or the public; provided, however, that a licensee shall be authorized to provide information regarding its low THC oil and products directly to physicians.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 141,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 27,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2019.
