# § 16-12-120. Certain acts in public transit buses, rapid rail cars, or stations; penalty

(a) A person who commits or attempts to commit any of the following acts in a public transit bus, a rapid rail car, or a rapid rail station or intermodal bus station shall be guilty of a misdemeanor:
  (1) Spits, defecates, or urinates;
  (2) Discards litter, except into receptacles designated for that purpose;
  (3) Smokes tobacco in any form;
  (4) Consumes food or beverage or possesses any open food or beverage container, provided that this paragraph shall not apply to resealable beverages in resealable plastic containers, to an operator of a public transit bus at an authorized layover point, or to a person providing food or beverage to any child under age five; provided, further, that nothing in this paragraph shall apply to a rapid rail station or intermodal bus station, unless the public transit system operating such station adopts a policy prohibiting food or beverages in such station; and provided, further, that nothing in this paragraph shall preclude a public transit system operated or funded by a county, municipality, or consolidated government from prohibiting the consumption of any beverage in a public transit bus;
  (5) Plays any radio; cassette, cartridge, or tape player; or similar device unless such device is connected to an earphone that limits the sound to the hearing of the individual user;
  (6) Carries or possesses any explosives, acids, other dangerous articles, or live animals, except for the following:
    (A) A guide dog or service dog as described in Code Section 30-4-2, provided that such guide dog or service dog is accompanied by a physically disabled person, blind person, person with visual disabilities, deaf person, or a person who is responsible for training a guide dog or service dog; and
    (B) Small pets confined to rigid pet carriers with locks or latches;
  (7) Obstructs, hinders, interferes with, or otherwise disrupts or disturbs the operation, operator, or passengers of a public transit bus or rapid rail car;
  (8) Boards any public transit bus through the rear exit door, unless so directed by an employee or agent of the carrier;
  (9) Remains aboard any public transit bus or rapid rail car after such vehicle has completed its scheduled route and passengers have been advised to exit the vehicle or remains aboard any public transit bus or rapid rail car after having been warned and after such vehicle has entered a garage or other restricted area not open to the public;
  (10) Enters, exits, or passes through any emergency door of any rapid rail car or public transit bus in the absence of a bona fide emergency; or
  (11) Enters the operator's cab or driver's seat of any rapid rail car or public transit bus in the absence of a bona fide emergency.
(a.1)
  (1) It shall be unlawful to solicit money or sell goods or services for a fee to the operator or passengers of a public transit bus or rapid rail car within the confines of such vehicle or within the paid areas of any rapid rail station or intermodal bus station without the express permission or grant of a concession by the public transportation authority or carrier.
  (2) It shall be unlawful to deliver or distribute handbills or flyers of a commercial nature to the operator or passengers of a public transit bus or rapid rail car within the confines of such vehicle or within the paid area of any rapid rail station or intermodal bus station.
  (3) A person violating the provisions of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50.00 and not more than $100.00. Upon a second or subsequent conviction, a person shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $250.00 or by imprisonment for not more than ten days, or both.
(b) Employees of a public transportation authority or carrier while at work performing the duties of their employment shall be exempted from the restrictions of paragraphs (8), (9), (10), and (11) of subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) A person convicted of a first offense of violating subsection (a) of this Code section shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50.00 and not more than $100.00. Upon a second or subsequent conviction, a person shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $250.00 or by imprisonment for not more than ten days, or both.
(d) This Code section shall be cumulative to and shall not prohibit the enactment of any other general and local laws, rules, and regulations of state or local authorities or agencies, and local ordinances prohibiting such activities which are more restrictive than this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 16, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 153,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 365,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 77, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 16eff. 2/12/2001.
