# § 16-12-100.5. Grooming of a minor for a sexual offense or trafficking for sexual servitude

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Computer" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 16-9-92.
  (2) "Electronic device" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 16-12-100.2.
  (3) "Minor" means any person under the age of 18 years.
  (4) "Pattern of conduct or communication" means a pattern of conduct composed of a series of acts over a period of time, however short, evidencing a continuity of purpose.
  (5) "Sexual offense" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 17-10-6.2.
  (6) "Sexual servitude" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 16-5-46.
(b) A person over the age of 18 and no less than 48 months older than the alleged victim commits the offense of grooming of a minor when such person knowingly and intentionally engages in a pattern of conduct or communication in person; through a third party; through the use of an electronic device, a computer, social media, or text messages; or by any other means to gain access to, to gain the compliance of, to prepare, to persuade, to induce, or to coerce a minor to engage in a sexual offense or trafficking of persons for sexual servitude.
(c) Any person who violates this Code section shall be guilty of a felony and punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years.
(d) It shall not be a defense to prosecution under this Code section that no sexual offense or trafficking of persons for sexual servitude was accomplished or attempted.
(e) A person shall be subject to prosecution in this state pursuant to Code Section 17-2-1 for any conduct made unlawful by this Code section which the person engages in while:
  (1) Either within or outside of this state if such conduct involves a minor who resides in this state or another person believed by such person to be a minor residing in this state; or
  (2) Within this state if such conduct involves a minor who resides within or outside this state or another person believed by such person to be a minor residing within or outside this state.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 491,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
