# § 43-33-12. Requirements for license to practice physical therapy

(1) Is a graduate of an educational program that prepares physical therapists and which is accredited by a recognized accrediting agency and approved by the board or, in the case of an applicant who has graduated from an educational program which prepares physical therapists conducted in a foreign country, has submitted, in a manner prescribed by the board, credentials approved by the board and who has further demonstrated the ability to speak, write, and understand the English language and has satisfactorily completed a three-month board approved traineeship under the supervision of a physical therapist licensed under this article;
(2) Has satisfactorily passed an examination prepared or approved by the board and has acquired any additional education and training required by the board;
(3) Is not disqualified to receive a license under the provisions of Code Section 43-33-18 or subsection (a) or (c) of Code Section 43-1-19; and
(4) Has satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for the issuance of a license under this Code section shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board or its representative to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. Such applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 548,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 37,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 53,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 775,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2008.
