# § 36-89-3. Appropriation to specify amount and eligible assessed value; procedures

(a) In the fiscal year ending on June 30, 2009, the General Assembly shall appropriate to the Department of Revenue funds to provide homeowner tax relief grants to counties, municipalities, and county or independent school districts. When funds are so appropriated, the General Appropriations Act shall specify the amount appropriated and the eligible assessed value of each qualified homestead in the state for the specified tax year, which eligible assessed value shall, subject to annual appropriation by the General Assembly, be not less than that specified in the Fiscal Year 2004 General Appropriations Act. If for any reason the amount appropriated in the General Appropriations Act is insufficient to fund the eligible assessed value stated in the General Appropriations Act, the amount appropriated may be adjusted in amendments to the General Appropriations Act. If the amount appropriated in the General Appropriations Act is sufficient to fund the eligible assessed value stated in the General Appropriations Act, that amount shall not be reduced or withdrawn for any reason.
(b) In the fiscal year ending on June 30, 2009, the General Assembly shall appropriate to the Department of Revenue funds to provide homeowner tax relief grants to counties, municipalities, and county or independent school districts. When funds are so appropriated, the supplemental appropriation bill shall specify the amount appropriated and the eligible assessed value of each qualified homestead in the state for the specified tax year. If for any reason the amount appropriated in the supplemental appropriation bill is insufficient to fund the eligible assessed value stated in the supplemental appropriation bill, the amount appropriated is authorized to be, but is not required to be, adjusted in the General Appropriations Act for the next succeeding fiscal year. If the amount appropriated in the General Appropriations Act is sufficient to fund the eligible assessed value stated in the General Appropriations Act, that amount shall not be reduced or withdrawn for any reason.
(c) Subject to the limitations of subsection (d) of this Code section, in each fiscal year beginning on or after July 1, 2009, the General Assembly shall appropriate to the Department of Revenue funds to provide homeowner tax relief grants to counties, municipalities, and county or independent school districts. When funds are so appropriated, the supplemental appropriation bill shall specify the amount appropriated and the eligible assessed value of each qualified homestead in the state for the specified tax year. If for any reason the amount appropriated in the supplemental appropriation bill is insufficient to fund the eligible assessed value stated in the supplemental appropriation bill, the amount appropriated is authorized to be, but is not required to be, adjusted in the General Appropriations Act for the next succeeding fiscal year. If the amount appropriated in the General Appropriations Act is sufficient to fund the eligible assessed value stated in the General Appropriations Act, that amount shall not be reduced or withdrawn for any reason.
(d)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "budget report" means the budget report prepared pursuant to Code Section 45-12-74.
  (2) For each fiscal year beginning on or after July 1, 2009, no funds shall be appropriated under subsection (c) of this Code section in any supplemental appropriation bill or General Appropriations Act unless the amount of estimated total revenues available for appropriation enumerated in the budget report for the current fiscal year exceeds the amount of estimated total revenues available for appropriation enumerated in the budget report for the most recent fiscal year in which homeowner tax relief grant funds were appropriated by 3 percent plus the percent change in the rate of economic inflation on individual taxpayers as determined under the Consumer Price Index for all urban consumers published by the Bureau of Labor Statistics of the United States Department of Labor.
(e) When funds are appropriated as provided in this Code section, each fiscal authority shall follow the procedures specified in Code Section 36-89-4. When funds are not appropriated, each fiscal authority shall not follow the procedures specified in Code Section 36-89-4 and shall not include a notice on each tax bill regarding the unavailability of the credit.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 36, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 1,§ 1, eff. 2/17/2009.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 343, § 46, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 882, § 6eff. 5/14/2002.
