# § 36-66-4. Hearings on proposed zoning decisions; notice of hearing; nongovernmental initiated actions; reconsideration of defeated actions; procedure on zoning

(a) A local government taking action resulting in a zoning decision shall provide for a hearing on the proposed action. Where the proposed action includes any combination of zoning decisions under subparagraph (C), (E), or (F) of paragraph (4) of Code Section 36-66-3 for the same property, only one hearing shall be required under this Code Section. At least 15 but not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing, the local government shall cause to be published within a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the local government a notice of the hearing. The notice shall state the time, place, and purpose of the hearing.
(b) If a zoning decision of a local government is for the rezoning of property and the rezoning is initiated by a party other than the local government, then:
  (1) The notice, in addition to the requirements of subsection (a) of this Code section, shall include the location of the property, the present zoning classification of the property, and the proposed zoning classification of the property; and
  (2) A sign containing information required by local ordinance or resolution shall be placed in a conspicuous location on the property not less than 15 days prior to the date of the hearing.
(c) If the zoning decision of a local government is for the rezoning of property and the amendment to the zoning ordinance to accomplish the rezoning is defeated by the local government, then the same property may not again be considered for rezoning until the expiration of at least six months immediately following the defeat of the rezoning by the local government.
(d) If the zoning is for property to be annexed into a municipality, then:
  (1) Such municipal local government shall complete the procedures required by this chapter for such zoning, except for the final vote of the municipal governing authority, prior to adoption of the annexation ordinance or resolution or the effective date of any local Act but no sooner than the date the notice of the proposed annexation is provided to the governing authority of the county as required under Code Section 36-36-6;
  (2) The hearing required by subsection (a) of this Code section shall be conducted prior to the annexation of the subject property into the municipality;
  (3) In addition to the other notice requirements of this Code section, the municipality shall cause to be published within a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the county wherein the property to be annexed is located a notice of the hearing as required under the provisions of subsection (a) or (b), as applicable, of this Code section and shall place a sign on the property when required by subsection (b) of this Code section; and
  (4) The zoning classification approved by the municipality following the hearing required by this Code section shall become effective on the later of:
    (A) The date the zoning is approved by the municipality;
    (B) The date that the annexation becomes effective pursuant to Code Section 36-36-2; or
    (C) Where a county has interposed an objection pursuant to Code Section 36-36-11, the date provided for in paragraph (8) of subsection (c) of said Code section.
(e) A qualified municipality into which property has been annexed may provide, by the adoption of a zoning ordinance, that all annexed property shall be zoned by the municipality, without further action, for the same use for which that property was zoned immediately prior to such annexation. A qualified county which includes property which has been deannexed by a municipality may provide, by the adoption of a zoning ordinance, that all deannexed property shall be zoned by the county, without further action, for the same use for which that property was zoned immediately prior to such deannexation. A municipality shall be a qualified municipality only if the municipality and the county in which is located the property annexed into such municipality have a common zoning ordinance with respect to zoning classifications. A county shall be a qualified county only if that county and the municipality in which was located the property deannexed have a common zoning ordinance with respect to zoning classifications. A zoning ordinance authorized by this subsection shall be adopted in compliance with the other provisions of this chapter. The operation of such ordinance to zone property which is annexed or deannexed shall not require any further action by the adopting municipality, adopting county, or owner of the property annexed or deannexed. Property which is zoned pursuant to this subsection may have such zoning classification changed upon compliance with the other provisions of this chapter.
(f) Reserved.
(g) A local government delegating decision-making power to a quasi-judicial officer, board, or agency shall provide for a hearing on each proposed action described in paragraph (1.1) of Code Section 36-66-3. Notice of such hearing shall be provided at least 30 days prior to the quasi-judicial hearing, with such notice being made as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section and with additional notice being mailed to the owner of the property that is the subject of the proposed action.
(h)
  (1) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary, when a proposed zoning decision relates to an amendment of the zoning ordinance to revise one or more zoning classifications or definitions relating to single-family residential uses of property so as to authorize multifamily uses of property pursuant to such classification or definitions, or to grant blanket permission, under certain or all circumstances, for property owners to deviate from the existing zoning requirements of a single-family residential zoning, such zoning decision shall be adopted in the following manner:
    (A) The zoning decision shall be adopted at two regular meetings of the local government making the zoning decision, during a period of not less than 21 days apart; and
    (B) Prior to the first meeting provided for in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, at least two public hearings shall be held on the proposed action. Such public hearings shall be held at least three months and not more than nine months prior to the date of final action on the zoning decision. Furthermore, at least one of the public hearings shall be held between the hours of 5:00 P.M. and 8:00 P.M. The hearings required by this paragraph shall be in addition to any hearing required under subsection (a) of this Code section. The local government shall give notice of such hearing by:
      (i) Posting notice on each affected premises in the manner prescribed by subsection (b) of this Code section; provided, however, that when more than 500 parcels are affected, in which case posting notice is required every 500 feet in the affected area; and
      (ii) Publishing in a newspaper of general circulation within the territorial boundaries of the local government a notice of each hearing at least 15 days and not more than 45 days prior to the date of the hearing. Both the posted notice and the published notice shall include a prominent statement that the proposed zoning decision relates to or will authorize multifamily uses or give blanket permission to the property owner to deviate from the zoning requirements of a single-family residential zoning of property in classification previously relating to single-family residential uses. The published notice shall be at least nine column inches in size and shall not be located in the classified advertising section of the newspaper. The notice shall state that a copy of the proposed amendment is on file in the office of the clerk or the recording officer of the local government and in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county of the legal situs of the local government for the purpose of examination and inspection by the public. The local government shall furnish anyone, upon written request, a copy of the proposed amendment, at no cost.
  (2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall also apply to any zoning decisions that provide for the abolition of all single-family residential zoning classifications within the territorial boundaries of a local government or zoning decisions that result in the rezoning of all property zoned for single-family residential uses within the territorial boundaries of a local government to multifamily residential uses of property.
  (3) This subsection shall not apply to zoning decisions for the rezoning of property from a single-family residential use of property to a multifamily residential use of property when the rezoning is initiated by the owner or authorized agent of the owner of such property.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 594,§ 2, eff. 5/6/2024.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 881,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 36, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 443, § 19, eff. 7/1/2004.
See 2022 Ga. Laws 881, § 1.
