# § 7-1-683-3. Use of Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry

(a) The department is authorized to:
  (1) Participate in the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry in order to facilitate the sharing of information and standardization of the licensing and application processes for persons subject to this article;
  (2) Enter into operating agreements, information sharing agreements, interstate cooperative agreements, and other contracts necessary for the department's participation in the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry;
  (3) Disclose or cause to be disclosed without liability, via the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry, applicant and licensee information, including, but not limited to, violations of this article and enforcement actions, to facilitate regulatory oversight across state jurisdictional lines;
  (4) Request that the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry adopt an appropriate privacy, data security, and security breach notification policy that is in full compliance with existing state and federal law; and
  (5) Establish and adopt, by rule or regulation, requirements for participation by applicants and licensees in the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry upon the department's determination that each requirement is consistent with both the public interest and the purposes of this article.
(b) The department shall enact rules and regulations establishing a process whereby licensees may challenge information entered by the department on the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry.
(c) Irrespective of its participation in the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry, the department shall retain full and exclusive authority over determinations of whether to grant, renew, suspend, or revoke licenses issued under this article. Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to reduce or otherwise limit such authority.
(d) Information disclosed through the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry is deemed to be disclosed directly to the department and subject to Code Section 7-1-70. Such information shall not be disclosed to the public and shall remain privileged and confidential pursuant to Code Section 7-1-70.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 7, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 532,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
