# § 7-1-532. Articles of merger, share exchange, or consolidation; publication of notice

(a) Upon adoption of the plan of merger, share exchange, or consolidation as provided in Code Section 7-1-531, the parties to the merger, share exchange, or consolidation shall file with the department articles of a merger, share exchange, or consolidation as required by this Code section, together with the fee required by Code Section 7-1-862.
(b) The articles of merger, share exchange, or consolidation shall be signed by two duly authorized officers of each party to the plan under their respective seals and shall contain:
  (1) The names of the parties to the plan and of the resulting bank or trust company or the acquiring corporation in a share exchange;
  (2) The street address and county of the location of the main office and registered agent and registered office of each;
  (3) The votes by which the plan was adopted and the time, place, and notice of each meeting in connection with such adoption;
  (4) The name and county of residence of each director of the resulting bank or trust company or each director of the acquired corporation in a share exchange;
  (5) In the case of a merger, any amendment of the articles of the resulting bank or trust company;
  (6) In the case of a consolidation, the provisions required in articles of a new bank or trust company by paragraphs (4), (5), (6), (7), and (10) of subsection (a) of Code Section 7-1-392; and
  (7) The plan.
(c) Together with the articles of merger, share exchange, or consolidation, the parties shall deliver to the department a copy of the notice of merger, share exchange, or consolidation and an undertaking, which may appear in the articles of merger, share exchange, or consolidation or be set forth in a letter or other instrument executed by an officer or any person authorized to act on behalf of such bank or trust company, that the request for publication of a notice of filing the articles of merger, share exchange, or consolidation and payment therefor will be made as required by subsection (d) of this Code section.
(d) No later than the next business day after filing the articles of merger, share exchange, or consolidation with the department, the parties shall mail or deliver to the publisher of a newspaper which is the official organ of the county where the main office of each party is located a notice which shall contain a statement that the articles of merger, share exchange, or consolidation have been filed with the department, the names of the institutions which are parties to the proposed merger, share exchange, or consolidation, and in the case of a merger the proposed name of the surviving bank or trust company, and shall designate a place where a copy of the articles of merger, share exchange, or consolidation may be examined. Subsections (b) and (c) of Code Section 7-1-7 shall also apply to the notice.
(e) The notice shall be published once a week for two consecutive weeks commencing within ten days after receipt of the notice by the newspaper.
(f) In the event the plan is amended as provided in Code Section 7-1-531, the parties shall promptly file with the department an amendment to the articles of consolidation, share exchange, or merger reflecting such amendment of the plan.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 174,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 64,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 256,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2007.
