# § 7-1-460. Restrictions on payment of dividends; limitation of actions for dividends or distributions

(a) The board of directors of a bank or trust company may, from time to time, declare and the bank or trust company thereupon shall pay dividends on its outstanding shares in cash, property, or its own shares, except when the bank or trust company is insolvent or when the payment thereof would render the bank or trust company insolvent or when the declaration or payment thereof would be contrary to any restrictions contained in the articles, and subject to the following provisions:
  (1) Dividends may be declared and paid in cash or property only out of the retained earnings of the bank or trust company unless otherwise approved in advance by the department on terms consistent with standards of safety and soundness;
  (2) The department may approve the payment of dividends by a bank or trust company, prior to the time such bank or trust company achieves cumulative profitability:
    (A) For the purpose of providing the shareholders of a Subchapter S bank with a source of funds to pay federal and state income taxes on the Subchapter S bank's income that is taxable to those shareholders; or
    (B) If a bank or trust company is profitable on an annual basis and the payment of such dividend is consistent with standards of safety and soundness;
  (3) Dividends may not be paid without the prior approval of the department in excess of specified amounts as may be fixed by regulations of the department to assure that banks and trust companies maintain an adequate capital structure;
  (4) Dividends may be declared and paid in lawfully held treasury shares or in authorized but unissued shares, provided that, in the case of a dividend of authorized but previously unissued shares, there shall be transferred to capital stock an amount equal to the aggregate par value of the shares distributed; and
  (5) No dividends payable in shares of any class shall be paid in respect to shares of any other class unless the articles so provide or unless such payment is authorized by the affirmative vote or the written consent of the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of the class in which the payment is to be made.
(b) A split or division of the issued shares of any class into a greater number of shares of the same class without increasing the capital stock of the bank or trust company shall not be construed to be a share dividend within the meaning of this Code section.
(c) If a bank or trust company has declared a cash dividend on any shares or any other distribution payable in cash or has sold fractional shares or scrip for the account of a shareholder and has mailed to a shareholder, at his address appearing on the records of the bank or trust company, a valid check in the amount of the dividend or other distribution or the proceeds of such sale to which such shareholder is entitled and, if such check would have been honored if duly presented to the bank on which it is drawn, no action for the recovery of such dividend or other distribution or for the amount thereof shall be brought by the shareholder or other person entitled thereto more than seven years after the date of mailing the check.
(d) If a bank or trust company has declared a dividend payable in its own shares or any other distribution payable in its own shares or in other than cash and has mailed to a shareholder, at his address appearing on the records of the bank or trust company, a certificate representing such shares or a notice setting forth the time and manner in which a distribution in other than its own shares or cash shall be paid, no action for the recovery of such dividends or other distribution or for the amount thereof shall be brought by the shareholder or other person entitled thereto more than seven years after the mailing of the share certificate or certificates or, in the case of a distribution in other than the shares of the bank or trust company or in cash, the time specified in the notice for the payment thereof.
(e) When the statute of limitations provided for in this Code section has run with respect to any unclaimed dividend, other unclaimed distribution, or unclaimed proceeds of the sale of fractional shares or scrip, the cash or property represented thereby shall thenceforth be treated as an asset of the bank or trust company.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 492,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 270,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 686,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 31,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2009.
