# § 7-1-708-2. Issuance of cease and desist orders; administrative and judicial enforcement; penalty for noncompliance

(a) The department may issue an order requiring a person to cease and desist immediately from unauthorized activities whenever it shall appear to the department that:
  (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a person has violated any law of this state or any order or regulation of the department, and such cease and desist order shall be final 20 days after it is issued unless the person to whom it is issued makes a written request within such 20 day period for a hearing; or
  (2) A person not licensed under this article is engaging in or has engaged in activities requiring licensure under this article, which such cease and desist order shall be final 30 days from the date of issuance, and there shall be no opportunity for an administrative hearing. If the proper license or evidence of exemption is obtained within the 30 day period, the order shall be rescinded by the department.
(b) The cease and desist order shall be in writing, sent by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery and addressed to the person's business address and, if the person is an individual, to the individual's personal address. Any cease and desist order sent to a person at its business address and, if an individual, his or her personal address that is returned to the department as "refused" or "unclaimed" shall be deemed as received and lawfully served.
(c) Any hearing authorized under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(d) Whenever a person shall fail to comply with the terms of a final order or decision of the department issued pursuant to this article, the department may, through the Attorney General and upon notice of three days to such person, petition the principal court for an order directing such person to obey the order of the department within the period of time as shall be fixed by the court. Upon the filing of such petition, the court shall allow a motion to show cause why it should not be granted. After a hearing upon the merits or after failure of such person to appear when ordered, the court shall grant the petition of the department upon a finding that the order of the department was properly issued.
(e) Any person who violates the terms of any final order or decision issued pursuant to this article shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. In determining the amount of penalty, the department shall take into account the appropriateness of the penalty relative to the size of the financial resources of such person, the good faith efforts of such person to comply with the order, the gravity of the violation, the history of previous violations by such person, and such other factors or circumstances as shall have contributed to the violation. The department may at its discretion compromise, modify, or refund any penalty which is subject to imposition or has been imposed pursuant to this Code section. Any person assessed as provided in this subsection shall have the right to request a hearing into the matter within ten days after notification of the assessment has been served upon the licensee involved; otherwise, such penalty shall be final except as to judicial review as provided in Code Section 7-1-90.
(f) Judicial review of any final order or decision of the department entered pursuant to this article shall be available solely in the superior court of the county of domicile of the department.
(g) In addition to any other administrative penalties authorized by this article, the department may, by rule or regulation, prescribe administrative fines for violations of this article and any rules and regulations promulgated by the department pursuant to this article.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 532,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2014.
