# § 7-1-590. Definitions

(1) "Bank" and "bank holding company" shall have the same meaning as in Part 18 of this article. A "banking business" is the business which a bank is authorized to do pursuant to this title. The power to receive deposits or the performance of any transaction directly or through an affiliate or agent relative to a deposit account shall be presumed to constitute a banking business.
(2) "Deposit production office" means a form of a representative office with the authority to solicit deposits, provide information about deposit products, and assist consumers to complete the application forms to open deposit accounts, provided that such office does not open deposit accounts, take deposits, or conduct any other banking business.
(3) "Domicile" means the home state as defined in paragraph (12) of Code Section 7-1-621 where a bank is chartered or where a bank holding company is incorporated.
(4) "Loan production office" is a form of a representative office, where the solicitation of loans or of leases of personal property may occur, but not the closing of loans, the disbursement of loan proceeds to the borrower, nor any other banking business. It shall be established and registered as a representative office.
(5) "Representative office" is an office established by a bank, a bank holding company, or an agent or subsidiary of either for the purpose of conducting business activities other than a banking business and includes, but is not limited to, deposit production offices, loan production offices, and trust production offices. It shall not be considered to be a branch office or main office.
(6) "Trust production office" means a trust sales office of a qualifying individual or corporate fiduciary which office is not performing fiduciary activities. Sales activities shall consist primarily of marketing or soliciting in this state using mail, telephone, or electronic means or in person to act or propose to act as a fiduciary.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 474,§ 1-7, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 748,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 339,§ 11, eff. 5/3/2018.
