# § 7-1-91. Orders by department; enforcement; civil penalty

(a) Whenever it shall appear to the department that the capital stock of a financial institution has been reduced below the minimum required by law or below the amount required by its articles, the department may issue a written order directing such corporation to restore the deficiency within such period as shall be specified in the order.
(b) Whenever it shall appear to the department that any financial institution is not keeping its books and accounts in such manner as to enable the department, with reasonable facility, to ascertain the true condition of the financial institution, the department may issue a written order requiring such financial institution, within such period as shall be specified in the order, to open and keep such books as the department may, in its discretion, reasonably determine are essential for the purpose of keeping accurate and convenient records of the transactions and accounts of such financial institution.
(c) Whenever any financial institution shall refuse to submit its records and affairs to a legally conducted examination or investigation by the department, the department may issue a written order requiring such financial institution to permit the commissioner or other duly authorized examiner to make such examination or investigation, within such period as shall be specified in the order.
(d) Whenever it shall appear to the department that any financial institution has violated its articles or any law of this state or any order or regulation of the department or that any financial institution is conducting business in an unsafe or unauthorized manner, the department may issue a written order requiring the financial institution to cease and desist from such unsafe and unauthorized practices.
(e) Whenever a financial institution shall fail to comply with the terms of an order of the department which has been properly issued under the circumstances, the department, upon notice of three days to the financial institution, may, through the Attorney General, petition the principal court for an order directing the financial institution to obey the order of the department within such period as shall be fixed by the court. Upon the filing of such petition, the court shall allow a rule to show cause why it should not be granted. Whenever, after a hearing upon the merits or after failure of the financial institution to appear when ordered, it shall appear that the order of the department was properly issued, the court shall grant the petition of the department.
(f) Any financial institution which violates the terms of any order issued pursuant to this Code section shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00. Each day during which the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. In determining the amount of penalty, the department shall take into account the appropriateness of the penalty relative to the size of the financial resources of the institution, the good faith efforts of the financial institution to comply with the order, the gravity of the violation, the history of previous violations by the financial institution, and such other factors or circumstances as shall have contributed to the violation. The department may at its discretion compromise, modify, or refund any penalty which is subject to imposition or has been imposed pursuant to this Code section. The financial institution or other person assessed as provided in this subsection shall have the right to request a hearing into the matter within ten days after notification of the assessment has been served upon the financial institution involved; otherwise, such penalty shall be final except as to judicial review as provided in Code Section 7-1-90.
(g) All penalties recovered by the department pursuant to this Code section shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the general fund; provided, however, that the department at its discretion may remit such amounts recovered, net of the cost of recovery, in the same manner as prescribed for judgments received through derivative actions pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 7-1-441.
(h) The term "financial institution" as used in this Code section shall include a bank holding company as defined in Code Section 7-1-605 and those entities required to be licensed pursuant to Article 4A of this chapter and any officer, director, employee, agent, or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of the financial institution subject to the orders issued pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 57,§ 4, eff. 6/1/2017.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 31,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2009.
