# § 7-1-241. Restrictions on engaging in banking business

(a) No person or corporation may lawfully engage in this state in the business of banking or receiving money for deposit or transmission or lawfully establish in this state a place of business for such purpose, except a bank, a national bank, a credit union to the extent provided in Article 3 of this chapter, a licensee engaged in money transmission to the extent permitted by Article 4 of this chapter, a foreign bank branch or foreign bank agency to the extent provided in Article 14 of this chapter, or a savings and loan association to the extent provided by the laws of the United States.
(b) None of the following shall be deemed to be engaged in the business of receiving money for deposit or transmission within the meaning of subsection (a) of this Code section:
  (1) A club or hotel to the extent it receives money from members or guests for temporary safekeeping;
  (2) An express, steamship, or telegraph company to the extent it receives money for transmission;
  (3) An attorney at law, real estate agent, fiscal agent, insurance company, utility company, or any other person or corporation to the extent he or she or it receives and transmits money solely as an incident to a business or profession not governed by this chapter;
  (4) Persons or corporations engaged in the business of cashing checks, dispensing cash through credit or debit card activated electronic devices, or recording of financial transactions resulting from and initiated at the point of the sale of goods or services; provided, however, that no such person or corporation shall receive deposits except as provided in Code Section 7-1-603 or otherwise engage in the business of banking; or
  (5) A securities broker or dealer registered pursuant to the provisions of 15 U.S.C. Section 78o or Chapter 5 of Title 10 to the extent that such securities broker or dealer:
    (A) Sells certificates of deposit or interest in certificates of deposit or other deposit instruments issued by a bank or savings association, provided such securities broker or dealer fully and fairly discloses at the time of solicitation and confirmation whether or not federal deposit insurance is available for that deposit instrument;
    (B) Purchases certificates of deposit or other deposit instruments issued by a bank or savings association for the account of the customer of such securities broker or dealer, provided that such instruments are registered in the name of the customer or the custodian of such customer on the books or other records of the issuing bank or savings association; or
    (C) Holds customer funds incidental to the purchase and sale of securities on behalf of such customer.
(c) The department is authorized to promulgate regulations and establish policy, consistent with the objectives of this chapter, which objectives include for the purposes of this Code section providing for appropriate competition between financial institutions and other financial organizations and protection of the interests of depositors, and to further define, restrict, or require registration of entities which provide financial products and services to the citizens of this state via the internet, other online access to financial products and services, or alternate methods of delivery which differ from geographically based banking.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 348,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 7, eff. 5/12/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 562,§ 7, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 7, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 7-5, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 528,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 7, eff. 5/13/2004.
