# § 7-1-242. Restriction on corporate fiduciaries

(a) No corporation, partnership, or other entity may lawfully act as a fiduciary in this state except:
  (1) A financial institution authorized to act in such capacity pursuant to the provisions of Georgia law;
  (2) A trust company;
  (3) A national bank or a state bank lawfully doing a banking business in this state and authorized to act as a fiduciary under the laws of the United States or another state;
  (4) A savings bank or savings and loan association lawfully doing a banking business in this state and authorized to act as a fiduciary under the laws of the United States or another state;
  (5) Attorneys at law licensed to practice in this state, whether organized as a professional corporation or otherwise;
  (6) An investment adviser registered pursuant to the provisions of 15 U.S.C. Section 80b-3 or Chapter 5 of Title 10, provided that this exception shall not authorize an investment adviser to act in any fiduciary capacity subject to the provisions of Title 53, relating to wills, trusts, and the administration of estates, or Title 29, relating to guardianships and conservatorships;
  (7) A securities broker or dealer registered pursuant to the provisions of 15 U.S.C. Section 78o or Chapter 5 of Title 10 acting in such fiduciary capacity incidental to and as a consequence of its broker or dealer activities; or
  (8) A nonprofit corporation.
(b) Acting as a fiduciary for purposes of this Code section includes but is not limited to:
  (1) Accepting or executing trusts or otherwise acting as a trustee;
  (2) Administering real or tangible personal property located in Georgia or elsewhere. For the purposes of this paragraph, "administer" means to possess, purchase, sell, lease, insure, safekeep, manage, or otherwise oversee; and
  (3) Acting pursuant to a court order as personal representative, executor, or administrator of the estate of a deceased person or as guardian or conservator for a minor or incapacitated person.
(c) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to repeal or to change Article 15 of Chapter 12 of Title 53 or any other statutes or rules of law on such subject.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 528,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 7, eff. 5/13/2004.
