# § 7-1-692. Denial, suspension, or revocation of license or authorization; procedure

(a) The department may suspend or revoke an original or renewal license issued pursuant to this article or rescind the authorization to act as an authorized agent of a licensee if it finds that any ground or grounds exist which would require or warrant the refusal of an application for the issuance or renewal of a license or the authorization to act as an authorized agent of a licensee if such an application or notification were then before it. The department may also deny an application, suspend or revoke an original or renewal license issued pursuant to this article, or rescind the authorization to act as an authorized agent of a licensee if it finds that the licensee or the authorized agent has:
  (1) Committed any fraud, engaged in any dishonest activities, or made any misrepresentation;
  (2) Violated any provisions of this article, any rule or regulation issued pursuant thereto, any order issued by the department, or any other law in the course of its dealings as a licensee or authorized agent;
  (3) Made a false statement in an original or renewal application for licensure or failed to give a true reply to a question in an original or renewal application;
  (4) Demonstrated incompetency or untrustworthiness to act as a licensee or authorized agent;
  (5) Failed to pay, within 30 days after it becomes final, a judgment recovered in any court by a claimant or creditor in an action arising out of the licensee's business in this state of engaging in money transmission;
  (6) Purposely withheld, deleted, destroyed, or altered information requested by an examiner of the department or made false statements or misrepresentations to the department;
  (7) Operated in an unsafe or unsound manner; or
  (8) Made a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, suspended payment of its obligations, or is insolvent.
(b) The department shall not issue a license to an applicant, may rescind the authorization to act as an authorized agent of a licensee, and may revoke a license if such applicant, licensee, or authorized agent is subject to or employs any person subject to a final cease and desist order that has been issued within the preceding five years if such order was based on a violation of this article. Each applicant or licensee shall, before hiring a covered employee, examine the department's public records to determine that such covered employee is not subject to a cease and desist order.
(c) The department shall not issue a license to an applicant, may rescind the authorization to act as an authorized agent of a licensee, and may revoke a license if such applicant, licensee, or authorized agent is subject to or employs any person whose license issued pursuant to this article was revoked within the preceding five years. Each applicant or licensee shall, before hiring a covered employee, examine the department's public records to determine that such covered employee's license was not revoked.
(d) The department shall not issue a license to an applicant, may rescind the authorization to act as an authorized agent of a licensee, and may revoke a license if it finds that any person who is a director, officer, partner, ultimate equitable owner of the applicant, licensee, or authorized agent or any individual who directs the affairs of or controls or establishes policy for the applicant, licensee, or authorized agent has been in one or more of those roles as a licensee whose application has been denied or license revoked or suspended within five years of the date of the application.
(e) Notice of the department's intention to enter an order denying an application for a license, rescinding the authorization to act as an authorized agent of a licensee, or suspending or revoking a license shall be given to the applicant, authorized agent, or licensee in writing, sent by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery addressed to the principal place of business of such applicant, authorized agent, or licensee. If a person refuses to accept service of the notice by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, the notice or order shall be served by the commissioner or the commissioner's authorized representative under any other method of lawful service, and the person shall be personally liable to the commissioner for a sum equal to the actual costs incurred to serve the notice or order. This liability shall be paid upon notice and demand by the commissioner or the commissioner's representative and shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as other fees or fines administered by the commissioner. Within 20 days of the date of the notice of intention to enter an order of denial, suspension, revocation, or rescission under this article, the applicant, authorized agent, or licensee may request in writing a hearing to contest the order. If a hearing is not requested in writing within 20 days of the date of such notice of intention, the department shall enter a final order regarding the denial, suspension, or revocation. Any final order of the department denying an application, suspending or revoking a license, or rescinding authorization to act as an authorized agent shall state the grounds upon which it is based and shall be effective on the date of issuance. A copy thereof shall be forwarded promptly by mail addressed to the principal place of business of such applicant, authorized agent, or licensee.
(f) A decision by the department denying an application for license or of an order suspending or revoking a license shall be subject to review in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(g) Whenever the department initiates an administrative action against a current licensee or an applicant, the department may pursue such action to its conclusion despite the fact that a licensee may withdraw or fail to renew its license or an applicant may withdraw its application.
(h) The suspension or revocation of a license under this Code section does not alter, ameliorate, or void a licensee's duties or liabilities under any existing contract entered into by the licensee prior to such suspension or revocation.
(i) The provisions of this Code section shall not apply when an application for a license is denied or a license is suspended as provided in Code Section 7-1-693.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 348,§ 31, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 532,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
