# § 7-1-651.1. In-person annual meetings; requirements for remote options; impact of emergency declaration

(a) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, the annual meeting of the members shall be held in person.
(b) Members may participate and vote remotely at the meetings of the members if the bylaws of the credit union explicitly provide an option for remote participation and voting. If the bylaws so provide, the board of directors shall:
  (1) Implement reasonable measures to:
    (A) Provide members a reasonable opportunity to remotely participate in such meetings. Such measures may include, but are not limited to, audio webcast or other broadcast of the meeting but, in every instance, shall provide members the ability to communicate substantially concurrently with the proceedings;
    (B) Enable members to vote at such meetings by means of electronic communication. Such measures may include, but are not limited to, telephonic or internet voting; and
    (C) Verify that each person deemed present and permitted to vote remotely is a member in order to ensure the integrity of the vote;
  (2) Provide the option for remote participation and voting at no cost to members; and
  (3) Keep a record of remote attendance by members and any vote or other action taken by a member participating remotely.
(c) In the event of a proclaimed emergency pursuant to Code Section 7-1-111, the board of directors may apply to the department for authorization to conduct a meeting of the members solely through remote participation. If such application is approved by the department, the board of directors shall comply with the requirements of subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 748,§ 25, eff. 7/1/2022.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 174,§ 30, eff. 7/1/2021.
