# § 7-1-628.7. Examinations and reports; powers of commissioner

(a) To the extent consistent with subsection (c) of this Code section, the commissioner may make such examinations of any branch established and maintained in this state by an out-of-state state bank as the commissioner may deem necessary to determine whether the branch is being operated in compliance with the laws of this state. The provisions of Parts 3 and 4 of Article 1 of this chapter are applicable to examinations.
(b) The commissioner may prescribe requirements for periodic reports regarding any out-of-state bank that operates a branch in Georgia pursuant to this part. The required reports shall be provided by such bank or by the bank supervisory agency having primary responsibility for such bank. Any reporting requirements prescribed by the commissioner under this subsection shall be:
  (1) consistent with the reporting requirements applicable to Georgia state banks; and
  (2) appropriate for the purpose of enabling the commissioner to carry out his or her responsibilities under this Code section.
(c) The commissioner may enter into cooperative, coordinating, and information sharing agreements with any other bank supervisory agencies or any organization affiliated with or representing one or more bank supervisory agencies with respect to the periodic examination or other supervision of any branch in Georgia of an out-of-state state bank or of any branch of a Georgia state bank in any host state, and the commissioner may accept such parties' reports of examination and reports of investigation in lieu of conducting his or her own examinations or investigations. Agreements to share should contain provisions for dealing with confidentiality and subpoenas.
(d) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the commissioner may enter into contracts with any bank supervisory agency that has concurrent jurisdiction over a Georgia state bank or an out-of-state state bank operating a branch in this state pursuant to this part to engage the services of such agency's examiners at a reasonable rate of compensation, to provide the services of the commissioner's examiners to such agency at a reasonable rate of compensation, or for another arrangement that the commissioner may find expedient and reasonable.
(e) If appropriate in the discretion of the commissioner and pursuant to an interstate agreement with the pertinent host state regulator for the purpose of facilitating the regulation and supervision of a multistate Georgia state bank, the department may approve and collect from its chartered bank, as agent and home state regulator, examination and supervision fees assessed by a state where the Georgia bank has a branch and may remit such fees to the assessing out-of-state regulator. Such fees shall not be considered revenue payable to the State of Georgia.
(f) In order to facilitate or implement interstate efforts to regulate and supervise a multistate Georgia state bank, the department may adjust its normal supervision examination fee assessment schedule and other rates and charges. Such adjustment may include any examination and supervision fees assessed by host state regulators, pursuant to subsection (e) of this Code section, as a part of the standard supervision and examination assessment.
(g) The commissioner may enter into joint examinations or joint enforcement actions with other bank supervisory agencies having concurrent jurisdiction over any branch in Georgia of an out-of-state state bank or any branch of a Georgia state bank in any host state, provided that the commissioner may at any time take such actions independently if he or she deems such actions to be necessary or appropriate to carry out his or her responsibilities under this part or to ensure compliance with the laws of this state, but provided, further, that, in the case of an out-of-state state bank, the commissioner shall recognize the exclusive authority of the home state regulator over corporate governance matters and safety and soundness matters.
(h) Each out-of-state bank that maintains one or more branches in this state may be assessed and, if assessed, shall pay supervisory and examination fees in accordance with the laws of this state and regulations of the department.
(i) Any examinations or reports originated by Georgia or by another bank supervisory agency shall be deemed and treated as confidential according to Georgia law, and such confidentiality shall not be affected by the sharing of the examination or reports. The department shall not be obligated to provide or disclose such examinations or reports to any third party.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 174,§ 24, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 7, eff. 7/29/2020.
