# § 7-1-441. Derivative actions by shareholders

(a) In a derivative action involving a right which a bank or trust company may have properly asserted, but which its representatives wrongfully failed to enforce that has been brought by one or more shareholders of a bank or trust company to procure a judgment in its favor, the complaint shall be verified and shall allege that the plaintiff is a shareholder of record at the time of bringing the action. It shall further allege:
  (1) That the plaintiff had purchased his or her shares or was a shareholder of record at the time of the transaction of which he or she complains or that his or her shares thereafter devolved on him or her through one or more transfers by operation of law from one who was a holder of record or member at such time; or
  (2) That the plaintiff is the holder of record of shares which at the time of the transaction of which he or she complains were held of record by a trustee of a trust in which the plaintiff held a beneficial interest or in which a beneficial interest was held by one from whom the shares have devolved upon the plaintiff through one or more transfers by operation of law.
(b) In any such action the complaint shall also allege with particularity the efforts of the plaintiff to secure the initiation of such action by the board of directors or comparable authority, or the reasons for not making such effort.
(c) Such action shall not be discontinued, compromised, or settled without the approval of the court having jurisdiction of the action. If the court shall determine that the interests of the members or of the shareholders of any class or classes will be substantially affected by such discontinuance, compromise, or settlement, the court shall direct that notice, by publication or otherwise, of the action and the proposed discontinuance, compromise, or settlement thereof be given to the members or to the shareholders of the class or classes whose interests it determines will be so affected; if notice is so directed to be given, the court may determine which one or more of the parties to the action shall bear the expense of giving the same in such amount as the court shall determine and find to be reasonable in the circumstances.
(d) If such action is successful, in whole or in part, or if anything is received by the plaintiff or plaintiffs as the result of the judgment or compromise or settlement of the action, the court may award the plaintiff or plaintiffs reasonable expenses, including reasonable fees of attorneys, and shall direct him or them to account to the bank or trust company for the remainder of the proceeds so received by him or them.
(e) In any such action, the court having jurisdiction, upon final judgment and a finding that the action was brought without reasonable cause, may require the plaintiff or plaintiffs to pay to the parties named as defendants the reasonable expenses, including fees of attorneys, incurred by them in the defense of such action; and such damages as the court may assess shall be paid to the bank or trust company for damages such bank or trust company may have sustained due to adverse publicity brought about as a result of action brought without reasonable cause.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 7-10, eff. 7/1/2016.
