# § 7-1-418. Issuance and transfer of fractional shares or scrip

(a) A bank or trust company may, but shall not be obliged to, issue certificates for fractional shares in order to effect share transfers, share distributions or reclassifications, mergers, consolidations, or reorganizations which shall entitle the holder, in proportion to his fractional holdings, to exercise voting rights, to receive dividends thereon, and to participate in any of the assets of the bank or trust company in the event of liquidation.
(b) As an alternative, a bank or trust company may pay in cash the fair value of fractional shares as determined by the board of directors as of a time fixed by the board. In the absence of bad faith, all acts of the board pursuant to this subsection shall be conclusive.
(c) As an alternative, the board of directors may issue scrip in registered or bearer form over the manual or facsimile signature of an officer of the bank or trust company or of its agent, exchangeable as therein provided for full shares; but such scrip shall not entitle the holder to any rights of a shareholder except as therein provided. The board of directors may cause such scrip to be issued subject to the condition that it shall become void if not exchanged for certificates representing full shares before a specified date, or subject to the condition that the shares for which such scrip is exchangeable may be sold by the bank or trust company and the proceeds thereof distributed to the holders of such scrip, or subject to any other conditions which the board of directors may deem advisable. If a bank or trust company issues scrip, it shall provide reasonable opportunity for persons entitled thereto to sell such scrip or to purchase such additional scrip as may be needed to acquire a full share.
(d) A corporation may provide reasonable opportunity for persons entitled to fractional shares to sell such fractional shares or to purchase such additional fractional shares as may be needed to acquire a full share, or may sell fractional shares or scrip for the account of such persons.
