# § 7-1-1018. Cease and desist orders; enforcement procedure; civil penalty; fines

(a) Whenever it shall appear to the department that any person required to be licensed under this article or employed by a licensee or who would be covered by the prohibitions in Code Section 7-1-1013 has violated any law of this state or any order or regulation of the department, the department may issue an initial written order requiring such person to cease and desist immediately from such unauthorized practices. Such cease and desist order shall be final 20 days after it is issued unless the person to whom it is issued makes a written request within such 20 day period for a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." A cease and desist order to an unlicensed person that orders such person to cease doing a mortgage business without the appropriate license shall be final 30 days from the date of issuance, and there shall be no opportunity for an administrative hearing. If the proper license or evidence of exemption or valid employment status during the time of the alleged offense is delivered to the department within the 30 day period, the order shall be rescinded by the department. If a cease and desist order is issued to a person who has been sent a notice of bond cancellation and if the bond is reinstated or replaced and such documentation is delivered to the department within the 20 day period following the date of issuance of the order, the order shall be rescinded. If the notice of reinstatement of the bond is not received within the 20 days, the license shall expire at the end of the 20 day period, and the person shall be required to make a new application for license and pay the applicable fees. In the case of an unlawful purchase of mortgage loans, such initial cease and desist order to a purchaser shall constitute the knowledge required under subsection (b) of Code Section 7-1-1002 for any subsequent violations. Any cease and desist order sent to the person at both his or her personal and business addresses pursuant to this Code section that is returned to the department as "refused" or "unclaimed" shall be deemed as received and sufficiently served.
(b) Whenever a person shall fail to comply with the terms of an order of the department which has been properly issued under the circumstances, the department, upon notice of three days to such person, may, through the Attorney General, petition the principal court for an order directing such person to obey the order of the department within the period of time as shall be fixed by the court. Upon the filing of such petition, the court shall allow a motion to show cause why it should not be granted. Whenever, after a hearing upon the merits or after failure of such person to appear when ordered, it shall appear that the order of the department was properly issued, the court shall grant the petition of the department.
(c) Any person who violates the terms of any order issued pursuant to this Code section shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 per violation per day unless otherwise agreed to by the department. In determining the amount of penalty, the department shall take into account the appropriateness of the penalty relative to the size of the financial resources of such person, the good faith efforts of such person to comply with the order, the gravity of the violation, the history of previous violations by such person, and such other factors or circumstances as shall have contributed to the violation. The department may at its discretion compromise, modify, or refund any penalty which is subject to imposition or has been imposed pursuant to this Code section. Any person assessed as provided in this subsection shall have the right to request a hearing into the matter within ten days after notification of the assessment has been served upon the person involved; otherwise, such penalty shall be final except as to judicial review as provided in Code Section 7-1-90.
(d) Initial judicial review of the decision of the department entered pursuant to this Code section or Code Section 7-1-1017 shall be available solely in the superior court of the county of domicile of the department.
(e) All penalties and fines recovered by the department as authorized by subsection (g) of this Code section shall be paid into the state treasury to the credit of the general fund; provided, however, that the department at its discretion may remit such amounts recovered, net of the cost of recovery, if it makes an accounting of all such costs and expenses of recovery in the same manner as prescribed for judgments received through derivative actions pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 7-1-441.
(f) For purposes of this Code section, the term "person" also includes any officer, director, employee, agent, or other person participating in the conduct of the affairs of the person subject to the orders issued pursuant to this Code section.
(g) In addition to any other administrative penalties authorized by this article, the department may, by regulation, prescribe administrative fines for violations of this article and of any rules promulgated by the department pursuant to this article.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 474,§ 1-35, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 492,§ 23, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 7, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 169,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 66,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 256,§ 40, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 37, eff. 5/5/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 7, eff. 5/13/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 376, §22, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2,§7, eff.2/12/2001
