# § 7-1-659. Entrance fees; reserves; exclusion of state and federal credit union reserves from tax calculations

(a) A credit union may charge entrance fees as provided in the bylaws. All such fees shall, after payment of organizational expense, be known as reserve income and shall be added to the regular reserve of the credit union.
(b) Immediately before the payment of each dividend, the gross earnings of the credit union shall be determined. There shall be set aside from that amount, as allowances for credit losses, sums adequate to cover such anticipated losses, based on the risk characteristics of the loan portfolio.
(c) All credit unions shall be subject to the capital and reserve requirements of Part 702 of the Rules and Regulations of the National Credit Union Administration, known as Prompt Corrective Action. Credit unions that are less than ten years old shall operate according to a business plan which shall contain requirements for reserves and which shall be approved by the department. The department shall have the discretion to require additional capital and reserves to assure the safety and soundness of any credit union.
(d) In addition to regular reserves, special reserves to protect the interest of members shall be established when found necessary in any special case by the board of directors of the credit union or by the department.
(e) All reserves of credit unions or federal credit unions established in accord with generally accepted accounting principles or upon the specific direction of the department or any federal regulatory body or for the purpose of complying with any conditions lawfully imposed by the department or any federal regulatory body shall not be considered as surplus or undivided profits of any credit union for tax purposes.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 348,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 945, § 8, eff. 7/1/2002.
