# § 7-1-687. Notice of action against licensee by creditor or claimant; other notification requirements

(a) A licensee shall give written notice to the department of any action which may be brought against it by any creditor or claimant where such action relates to the activities authorized under this article or involves a claim against the bond filed with the department under Code Section 7-1-683.2. The notice shall provide details sufficient to identify the action and shall be sent within 30 days after the commencement of any such action. The licensee shall also give written notice to the department within 30 days of the entry of any judgment entered against the licensee.
(b) The corporate surety shall, within ten days after it pays any claim to any creditor or claimant, give notice to the department by registered or certified mail of such payment with details sufficient to identify the claimant or creditor and the claim or judgment so paid. Whenever the principal sum of such bond is reduced by one or more recoveries or payments thereon, the licensee shall furnish a new or additional bond so that the total or aggregate principal sum of such bond or bonds shall equal the sum required under Code Section 7-1-683.2 or shall furnish an endorsement duly executed by the corporate surety reinstating the bond to the required principal sum thereof.
(c) A bond filed with the department for the purpose of compliance with Code Section 7-1-683.2 shall not be canceled by either the licensee or the corporate surety except upon notice to the department electronically through the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry, and such cancellation shall be effective no sooner than 30 days after receipt by the department of such notice and only with respect to any breach of condition occurring after the effective date of such cancellation.
(d) A licensee shall give written notice to the department within ten days of the following:
  (1) Any knowledge or discovery of an act prohibited by Code Section 7-1-684 or 7-1-691 or subsection (a) of Code Section 7-1-692;
  (2) The discharge of any employee for actual or suspected misrepresentations, dishonest acts, or fraudulent acts;
  (3) Any knowledge or discovery of the discharge of a covered employee or an authorized agent for actual or suspected misrepresentations, dishonest acts, or fraudulent acts;
  (4) Any knowledge or discovery of an administrative, civil, or criminal action initiated by any government entity against the licensee or an authorized agent; any director, officer, partner, or ultimate equitable owner of the licensee or authorized agent; or any individual who directs the affairs of or controls or establishes policy for the licensee or authorized agent; or
  (5) The filing of a petition by or against the licensee under the United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. Sections 101 through 110, for bankruptcy reorganization or the filing of a petition by or against the licensee for receivership or the making of a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors.
(e) Unless prior approval of a change in executive officer is required under Code Section 7-1-688 and notwithstanding subsection (f) of Code Section 7-1-684 requiring a criminal background check prior to the initial date of hire, a licensee shall notify the department in writing of any change of executive officer in such a manner that the notice is received by the department no later than ten business days after the effective date of the change. In the event of such change, the licensee shall initiate a criminal background check no later than ten business days after the effective date of the change. If the department determines that an executive officer does not meet the requirements of subsection (b) or (c) of Code Section 7-1-684, the department may disapprove the notice of change, and the licensee shall remove the individual from the executive officer position upon receipt of the disapproval.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 348,§ 26, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 748,§ 31, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 492,§ 14, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 339,§ 18, eff. 5/3/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 57,§ 22, eff. 6/1/2017.
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 532,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
