# § 7-1-488. Officers, agents, and employees; employee share plans

(a) A bank or trust company shall have a president, a secretary, and such other officers as the directors may from time to time designate. An individual may hold more than one office, except that the individual shall not be both president and secretary.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws, the board of directors shall elect the officers, fix their compensation, and fill vacancies, however occurring. An officer elected or appointed by the board may be removed by the board at any time, whenever in its judgment the best interests of the institution will be served thereby, without prejudice to any contract right of such officer. The department shall immediately be notified in writing when the individual holding the position of chief executive officer or president of the bank changes.
(c) The officers, as between themselves and the bank or trust company, shall have such authority and perform such duties as may be provided in the bylaws adopted by the board.
(d) A bank or trust company may also employ such agents or employees as may be required for the prompt and orderly discharge of its business.
(e)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in the articles, a bank or trust company may adopt and carry out a plan, approved by the directors and the affirmative vote of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereon, for the sale of shares, or for the granting of options for shares, to some or all of the officers and employees of the bank or trust company or of any affiliate of the bank or trust company or to a trustee on behalf of such employees, upon such terms and conditions and in such manner as may be provided by the bylaws or by the board. In any such plan:
    (A) Such shares may be sold or optioned upon terms (not less than the par value thereof) which are deemed advantageous to the bank or trust company by the directors other than directors who may benefit by their action or, if the number of directors who will not benefit by the action is fewer than three, by the shareholders; and
    (B) In the absence of fraud in the transaction, the judgment of the board of directors or the shareholders as to the adequacy of the consideration received for any rights or options to purchase shares under the plan shall be conclusive.
  (2) Such a plan may be adopted whether or not it qualifies for special tax treatment under the laws of the United States.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 7-11, eff. 7/1/2016.
