# § 7-1-482. Number, term, and compensation of directors; effect of failure to maintain at least five directors

(a) The articles or bylaws of any bank or trust company may fix the number of directors of its policy-making board at not less than five nor more than 25 and may provide that the board may, within such limitation, increase or decrease the number of directors by not more than two in any one year, provided that nothing in this subsection shall require a bank with a board of directors of less than five on July 1, 1972, to increase its board to five members. The failure of a bank or trust company to maintain at least five directors at any time does not exculpate the remaining directors from their obligations and liabilities associated with the actions and decisions made as directors of the financial institution, nor does it in any way void any actions taken or decisions made by the board of directors during any such time that there were less than five directors.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, each director shall be elected by the shareholders for a term of one year or for staggered terms as provided in Code Section 14-2-806 and shall serve until he or she resigns, is removed, or becomes disqualified or until his or her successor shall have been duly elected and qualified.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws, the board of directors may fix the compensation for directors; and a director may be a salaried officer of the bank or trust company.
(d) Notwithstanding the requirements of this Code section, the board of directors of a bank may appoint one or more nonpolicy-making regional boards of directors to consist of a number of persons to be determined by the board. The members of such regional boards may not set bank policy but may exercise certain powers, duties, and responsibilities as delegated by the board. Such regional board members shall have the same status as nonpolicy-making officers of the bank. All such delegations shall be documented in detail in the minutes of the board.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 169,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
