# § 7-1-657. Duties of audit committee; inspections; comprehensive annual audits; use of independent accountants

(a) The audit committee shall be responsible for securing a comprehensive audit of the credit union at least once each year unless such time period is modified pursuant to the rules and regulations of the department. Except as provided for in subsection (c) of this Code section, the committee shall employ the services of a licensed, independent certified public accountant or firm of such accountants to make such comprehensive audit. The results of the audit shall be submitted to the board, and the committee shall present a summary of the results of the audit to the membership. The committee shall make recommendations to the board for the correction of any deficiencies disclosed by the audit. The annual audit shall include a confirmation of the share, deposit, and loan accounts of the members and such other procedures as the department might require. The annual audit shall be preserved with the records of the credit union, and a copy of such audit shall be filed with the department upon request by the department.
(b) The audit committee, from time to time, may conduct or cause to be conducted other audit functions or reviews of operations or may make or cause to be made an inspection of the assets and the liabilities of the credit union. The committee shall report the results of any such reviews to the board of directors and shall be responsible for making specific recommendations to the board regarding any unsafe, unsound, or unauthorized activities discovered.
(c) Based upon the total assets of a credit union, the complexity of a credit union, or other factors, the department may enact rules and regulations authorizing certain credit unions to obtain the required comprehensive audit from an individual or entity that is not a licensed, independent certified public accountant or firm of such accountants so long as the individual or entity is independent or otherwise qualified.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 270,§ 25, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 57,§ 19, eff. 6/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 64,§ 23, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 945, § 7, eff. 7/1/2002.
