# § 7-1-750. Amendment of articles

(a) Except as provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section and subject to the approval of the department, the articles may be amended by the votes of the shareholders and the members of the corporation, voting separately by classes, and such amendments shall require approval by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the votes to which the members shall be entitled.
(b) No amendment shall be adopted which is inconsistent with the general purposes expressed in paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 7-1-741 or which authorizes any additional class of stock to be issued or which would tend to impair the ability of the department to examine and supervise the corporation.
(c) No amendment of the articles which increases the obligation of a member to make loans to the corporation or makes any change in the principal amount, interest rate, or maturity date or in the security or credit position of any outstanding loan of a member to the corporation or affects a member's right to withdraw from membership as provided in Code Section 7-1-748 or affects a member's voting rights as provided in this article shall be made without the consent of each member affected by such amendment.
(d) Within 30 days after any meeting at which an amendment to the articles is approved, it shall be submitted to the department together with such information as the department shall require. If the department finds in its discretion that the proposed amendment is in conformity with the objectives and requirements of this article, it shall issue its certificate approving the amendment. If the amendment is disapproved, the department shall briefly state its reasons for such action to the corporation. The decision of the department shall be conclusive, except as it may be subject to judicial review as provided in Code Section 7-1-90.
(e) Upon the approval of the department, articles of amendment signed and sworn to by the president, treasurer, and a majority of the directors, setting forth such amendment and due adoption thereof, shall, together with the department's certificate of approval, be submitted to the Secretary of State, who shall examine them and, if he finds that they conform to the requirements of this article, shall so certify and endorse his approval thereon.
