# § 7-1-536. Effect of merger, share exchange, or consolidation

(a) As of the issuance of the certificate of merger, share exchange, or consolidation by the Secretary of State, the merger, share exchange, or consolidation shall be effective.
(b) The certificate of merger, share exchange, or consolidation shall be conclusive evidence of the performance of all conditions precedent to the merger, share exchange, or consolidation and of the existence or creation of the bank or trust institution, except as against the state.
(c) When a merger or consolidation becomes effective, each party to the plan, except the resulting bank or trust company, shall cease to exist as a separate entity but shall continue in, and the parties to the plan shall be, a single corporation which shall be the bank or trust company and which shall have, without further act or deed, all the property, rights, powers, trusts, duties, and obligations of each party to the plan. When a share exchange becomes effective, the shares of each acquired bank or trust company are exchanged as provided in the plan, and the former holders of the shares are entitled only to the share exchange rights provided in the plan of share exchange or to their rights under Code Section 7-1-537.
(d) The articles of the resulting bank or trust company shall be, in the case of a merger, the same as its articles prior to the merger with any change stated in the articles of merger or, in the case of a consolidation, the provisions stated in the articles of consolidation.
(e) The resulting bank or trust company, or the acquired bank or trust company in a share exchange, shall have the authority to engage only in such business and exercise only such powers as are then permissible upon original incorporation under this chapter and shall be subject to the same prohibitions and limitations as it would then be subject to upon original incorporation. It may, however, subject to permission of the department as set out in Code Sections 7-1-530 and 7-1-555, engage in any business and exercise any right that any bank or trust company which is a party to the plan could lawfully exercise or engage in immediately prior to the merger, share exchange, or consolidation.
(f) No liability of any party to the plan or of its shareholders, directors, or officers shall be affected nor shall any lien on any property of a party to the plan be impaired by the merger, share exchange, or consolidation. Any claim existing or action pending by or against any party to the plan may be prosecuted to judgment as if the merger, share exchange, or consolidation had not taken place or the resulting bank or trust company may be substituted in its place.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 256,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 299, § 6, eff. 7/1/2001.
