# § 7-1-162. Inventory and appraisement

(a) When the department has taken possession of the business and property of a financial institution as receiver, it shall forthwith prepare a complete and detailed inventory of the assets of such financial institution. The inventory shall be verified by oath or affirmation of the commissioner or other person making it.
(b) As soon as expedient after taking possession, the department shall cause a complete appraisement of the assets of the financial institution to be made, in duplicate, under oath or affirmation, by not less than two nor more than three disinterested appraisers selected by it. Such appraisement shall be included upon the same document or documents as the inventory. The value of the assets shall be computed in the appraisement as of the date on which the department took possession.
(c) The original and duplicate of the inventory and appraisement shall be filed in the office of the commissioner. However, if the commissioner shall determine, in accordance with this chapter, to liquidate the affairs of the financial institution, he shall immediately, after the determination to liquidate, file the duplicate inventory and appraisement with the principal court.
(d) When the department takes possession of business and property of a financial institution which in the two immediately preceding reports of condition filed in accordance with subsection (a) of Code Section 7-1-68 reported assets of less than $150,000.00, the department shall not be required to secure an appraisement of the assets of the financial institution under subsection (b) of this Code section or to file an appraisement of the assets with a determination to liquidate under subsection (c) of this Code section, unless the principal court, upon application by a shareholder or creditor, shall otherwise order.
