# § 7-1-512. Execution, contents, filing, and effect of articles of amendment

(a) Upon the adoption of an amendment, articles of amendment shall be signed by two duly authorized officers of the bank or trust company under its seal and shall contain:
  (1) The name of the bank or trust company;
  (2) The street address and county of its main office;
  (3) Whether it was incorporated with banking or trust powers or both;
  (4) The time and place of the meeting of shareholders at which the shareholders approved the resolution of the board of directors, as originally proposed or as amended, and the kind and period of notice given to the shareholders;
  (5) The number of shares entitled to vote on the amendment and, if the shares of any class are entitled to vote as a class, the number of shares of each such class;
  (6) The number of shares voted for and against the amendment and, if shares of any class are entitled to vote as a class, the number of shares of each such class voted for and against the amendment; and
  (7) The amendment adopted, which shall be set forth in full.
(b) The articles of amendment shall be filed with the department together with:
  (1) The fee required by Code Section 7-1-862; and
  (2) As soon as possible, a publisher's affidavit as proof of publication of the advertisement required by Code Section 7-1-513.
(c) The filing of articles of amendment shall constitute an application for a certificate of amendment. If the articles of amendment involve a change in the name of a bank or trust company, it shall reserve the proposed new name under the procedures of Code Section 7-1-131.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 64,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2015.
