# § 7-1-628. Purpose; legislative findings; scope of part

(a) It is the purpose of this part to permit interstate banking and branching by merger under Section 102 of the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994, subject to the limitations and requirements set out in this part and in Parts 14, 18, and 19 of this article.
(b) The scope of this part covers mergers where, upon consummation of the interstate merger transaction, the resulting bank will have banking locations in Georgia and at least one other state. It provides for certain approval, notice, and other requirements.
(c) In authorizing the expansion of interstate banking to this state, and in the interests of its citizens, the General Assembly finds that primary consideration should be given to the following:
  (1) Affording protection and promoting convenience to bank depositors and other customers of financial institutions in this state;
  (2) Preserving the advantages of a sound dual banking system and the competitive equality of state chartered institutions with federally chartered institutions; and
  (3) Providing to the Department of Banking and Finance sufficient powers and responsibilities to implement these considerations.
(d) This part is not intended to discriminate against out-of-state bank holding companies or against foreign bank holding companies in any manner that would violate Section 3(d) of the Bank Holding Company Act, as amended by the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 748,§ 21, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 174,§ 21, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 2-21, eff. 7/1/2016.
