# § 7-1-204. Liquidation of excess assets by trustees

If any unliquidated assets remain in the department's possession after the filing and confirmation of its final account, the payment in full of the claims of all depositors, creditors, and other claimants which have been approved by the court and the distribution to shareholders of any cash balance remaining thereafter, it shall call a meeting of all the shareholders of the financial institution by giving them written notice at least 30 days before the day fixed for the meeting. At such meeting, the shareholders shall elect by ballot a trustee or trustees, who shall complete the liquidation. A majority of the shares present in person or by proxy shall be necessary to elect such trustee or trustees. The department shall file a certified copy of the minutes of said meeting with the principal court. If no trustee is elected in this manner on the day designated, the department shall petition the principal court for the appointment of a trustee or trustees. The trustee or trustees who are thus elected by the shareholders or appointed by the court shall give bond to the state, in such amount, with such surety, and under such conditions as the court may direct. The department shall then transfer to such trustee or trustees all the assets of the financial institution which are still in its possession. After such transfer by the department to a trustee or trustees for the benefit of the shareholders, the financial institution shall have no corporate powers or privileges whatsoever, except that its shareholders may elect a successor trustee or trustees upon death, removal, or inability of the first trustee or trustees to act. The trustee or trustees shall not succeed to any powers or privileges except such as shall be necessary to the liquidation of the remaining assets which have been transferred to such trustee or trustees by the department.
