# § 7-1-156. Supervision of department by court

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the department, when it has taken possession of a financial institution, shall be responsible to the principal court and not to any other court. All actions against the department or any official of it involving a financial institution which is or has been in the department's possession shall be brought in the principal court.
(b) The principal court shall sit as a court of equity. It shall have the power, upon petition of the department, to make and enforce any appropriate order to enable the department, with the utmost dispatch, to discharge its duties in connection with the business and property of any financial institution of which it has taken possession.
(c) The court shall grant to any party against whom an order is sought the right to appear, within ten days after notice is given, to show cause why the order should not be made. The court shall have the power, at the end of the ten-day period, ex parte if the other party does not appear to show cause, or upon the merits if the party does appear, to issue the aforementioned order.
(d) Whenever this chapter empowers the department as receiver to take any action with the leave of court, the department shall give the financial institution and its creditors, depositors, and shareholders ten days' notice of its proposed action before seeking the approval of the court, provided that the court may, upon cause shown, shorten the time or dispense with such notice or direct that it be sent to only specified parties. In determining what, if any, notice shall be provided, the court may consider, among other factors, the necessity for immediate action in the interest of the financial institution as a whole and whether the interests of potential addressees are actually at stake. Where parties object to the proposed action of the department, the court shall allow them an opportunity to present their views appropriate to the nature of the case.
