# § 7-1-198. Filing or ordering partial or final account; notice of filing; exceptions

(a) At any time after the expiration of the period fixed by the department for the presentation of claims, it may file a partial account of its administration of the business and property of the financial institution, duly verified under oath or affirmation, with the principal court. If the department does not file its first account within one year after it takes possession of a financial institution, any depositor, other creditor, or shareholder of such financial institution may petition the court to order the department to file an account. The court may, in its discretion, grant or refuse the petition. Whenever it becomes economically advisable to wind up finally the affairs of a financial institution in liquidation, the department shall file with the principal court its final account, duly verified under oath or affirmation. The clerk of the principal court shall not be under any duty to recopy or otherwise to record any account and shall make no charge except the regular fee for filing such or similar papers.
(b) The account shall present the department's administration of the estate, including a statement of all receipts or expenditures, a list of all claims which have been allowed, and a separate list of claims which have been objected to or are disputed, showing as to all depositors and other creditors, their names and addresses, the amounts due or claimed to be due to them, and any priorities in the order of distribution granted to or claimed by them. A final account need not present matters previously settled incident to partial accounts.
(c) The department shall forthwith give written or printed notice of the filing of an account to all corporations or persons whom it knows to be, or who claim to be depositors or other creditors or who have given to it notice claiming a right of attachment or execution. Such notice shall also state that unless an exception to the account or to any item therein is filed with the principal court within 30 days from the date of the filing thereof, it will be confirmed absolutely. The department shall also advertise such notice in a newspaper or newspapers as provided in this chapter, stating the date upon which it has filed its partial or final account and that all exceptions to the account must be filed within 30 days from the date of the filing of the account. The department shall forthwith file with the court, under oath or affirmation, a statement that it has, in the manner provided by this chapter, sent both the notice of its determination to liquidate and the notice of its filing of an account to all corporations or persons entitled thereto. The department shall also file the proofs of publication of the advertisements required by this Code section.
(d) Any corporation or person who is or who claims to be a depositor, other creditor, or shareholder of a financial institution or who has given to the department notice of his claim to the right of execution or attachment or who asserts any other type of claim against a financial institution may, within 30 days after the filing of an account by the department, file in the principal court specific exceptions in writing, under oath or affirmation, to such account or to any item therein. Notice of any exception to an individual item in an account shall forthwith be personally served upon or sent by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the corporation or person whose claim is thus objected to or his counsel and also the department or the deputy receiver managing the affairs of the particular financial institution or the counsel of either. Affidavit of the serving or sending of such notice shall forthwith be filed with the court.
(e) Whenever an exception is filed to any expenditure made by the department as an expense of administration, the department shall keep an accurate record of the salaries and other expenses properly incurred by it in the contesting of such exception. If the exception is overruled and the expenditure is sustained, the court may, in its discretion, assess such expenses and salaries, together with the regular costs provided by law, upon the depositor, other creditor, or shareholder filing such exception.
