# § 7-1-669. Corporate credit union

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "corporate credit union" means a credit union which is organized to serve a field of membership which consists primarily of other credit unions operating pursuant to this chapter, any other state credit union law, or the Federal Credit Union Act. A corporate credit union may be organized and operated under this chapter and subject to all provisions of this chapter which are not inconsistent with this Code section.
(b) The field of membership of a corporate credit union shall include credit unions organized and operating under this chapter, any other state credit union law, or under the Federal Credit Union Act. In addition, the field of membership may include:
  (1) Members of credit unions which are members of the corporate credit union;
  (2) Officials and employees of any organization or association of credit unions and of the corporate credit union;
  (3) Except as limited in Article 1 of this chapter, employees of the department or of the National Credit Union Administration;
  (4) Organizations and associations of persons or credit unions included in the foregoing;
  (5) Persons who are:
    (A) Members of a credit union that has entered into voluntary or involuntary dissolution;
    (B) Indebted to a credit union which has entered into voluntary or involuntary dissolution;
    (C) Nonmember depositors of a credit union which has entered into voluntary or involuntary dissolution; and
  (6) Groups within a common bond which are determined by the commissioner to lack the potential membership required for approval of their own credit union.
(c) The corporate credit union may make loans to individuals who are members pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section only upon approval of the credit committee of the member credit union of which the individual is a member and to individuals who are members pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of this Code section only upon reporting such loan to the appropriate supervisory authority.
(d) The commissioner may, in his or her discretion, approve greater borrowings than provided in this chapter when required to enable the credit union to meet its obligations to its members and otherwise assist its members during any emergency or hardship.
(e) A corporate credit union may:
  (1) Make loans to other credit unions, but loans to any one credit union shall not exceed:
    (A) For unsecured loans and lines of credit, excluding pass-through and guaranteed loans from the Central Liquidity Facility and the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, more than 50 percent of its net worth; or
    (B) For secured loans and lines of credit, excluding those secured by shares or marketable securities and member reverse repurchase transactions, more than 100 percent of its net worth. The department may utilize definitions found in the National Credit Union Administration rules and regulations in interpreting this subsection;
  (2) Make loans to other members as specified in Code Section 7-1-658;
  (3) Purchase shares of and make deposits in other credit unions;
  (4) Obtain or acquire the assets and liabilities of any credit union which enters into liquidation;
  (5) Invest in and grant loans to associations of credit unions and to organizations chartered to provide service to credit unions; and
  (6) Borrow money and accept deposits from any source.
(f) The commissioner may issue such special regulations as he or she may deem prudent or necessary to allow a corporate credit union to promote effectively the liquidity and sound financial management of its member credit unions without unduly endangering its own liquidity and sound financial condition. Such special regulations need not be applicable to all credit unions but may be applicable only to the corporate credit union. The corporate credit union shall maintain adequate allowances for credit losses in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and such other reserves as may be required by the rules and regulations of the department.
(g) A corporate credit union shall have all the rights and powers of any other credit union organized under this chapter and the additional rights and powers specified in this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 348,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 3-4, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 7, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 25, eff. 5/5/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 945, § 9, eff. 7/1/2002.
