# § 7-1-1007. Notification requirements

(a) A licensee shall give written notice to the department of any action which may be brought against it by any creditor or borrower where such action is brought under this article, involves a claim against the bond filed with the department for the purposes of compliance with Code Section 7-1-1003.2 or 7-1-1004, or involves a claim for damages in excess of $25,000.00 for a mortgage broker or mortgage loan originator and $250,000.00 for a lender and of any judgment which may be entered against it by any creditor or any borrower or prospective borrower, with details sufficient to identify the action or judgment, within 30 days after the commencement of any such action or the entry of any such judgment.
(b) A corporate surety shall, within ten days after it pays any claim to any claimant, give notice to the department by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery of such payment with details sufficient to identify the claimant and the claim or judgment so paid. Whenever the principal sum of such bond is reduced by one or more recoveries or payments thereon, the mortgage loan originator, mortgage broker, or mortgage lender shall furnish a new or additional bond so that the total or aggregate principal sum of such bond or bonds shall equal the sum required under Code Section 7-1-1003.2 or 7-1-1004 or shall furnish an endorsement duly executed by the corporate surety reinstating the bond to the required principal sum thereof.
(c) A bond filed with the department for the purpose of compliance with Code Section 7-1-1003.2 or 7-1-1004 shall not be canceled by either the mortgage loan originator, mortgage broker, or mortgage lender or the corporate surety except upon notice to the department electronically through the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry, the cancellation to be effective not less than 30 days after receipt by the department of such notice and only with respect to any breach of condition occurring after the effective date of such cancellation.
(d) A licensee shall, within ten days after knowledge of the event, report in writing to the department:
  (1) Any knowledge or discovery of an act prohibited by Code Section 7-1-1013;
  (2) The discharge of any employee for dishonest or fraudulent acts; and
  (3) Any administrative, civil, or criminal action initiated against the licensee or any of its control persons by any government entity. Any person reporting such an event shall be protected from civil liability as provided in Code Section 7-1-1009.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 474,§ 1-25, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 748,§ 36, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 492,§ 20, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 57,§ 25, eff. 6/1/2017.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 66,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 945, § 12, eff. 7/1/2002.
