# § 7-1-296. Exercise of federal powers

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term "federal power" means any banking or corporate power, right, benefit, privilege, or immunity of a national bank, the deposits of which are federally insured, that may be exercised by a national bank doing business in this state pursuant to the National Bank Act, 12 U.S.C. Section 1, et seq.; any other federal statute; or any regulation, ruling, circular, bulletin, order, or interpretation issued by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Such term shall include only the provisions set forth above which were effective on January 1, 2018.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, a bank may exercise any federal power while a national bank may also exercise such power subject to the same limitations and restrictions as are applicable to national banks, provided that the requirements of subsection (d) of this Code section have been satisfied. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as authorizing a bank chartered by this state to exercise a federal power prior to compliance with subsection (d) of this Code section.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, to the extent the National Bank Act, 12 U.S.C. Section 1, et seq., or any other federal law or regulation in effect on January 1, 2018, precludes or preempts or has been determined to preclude or preempt the application of any provision of law, rule, or regulation of this state, as to any national bank doing business in this state, a bank may also exercise such power authorized by the preclusion or preemption subject to the same limitations and restrictions as are applicable to a national bank, provided that the requirements of subsection (d) of this Code section have been satisfied. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as authorizing a bank chartered by this state to exercise a federal power prior to compliance with subsection (d) of this Code section.
(d) In furtherance of the commissioner's statutory duties to regulate, supervise, and examine, a bank shall notify the commissioner in writing by certified or registered mail that, pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) of this Code section, it intends to exercise a federal power or to avail itself of any federal preclusion or preemption of any provision of law, rule, or regulation of this state. Such notice shall include the specific federal authorization of the activity to be utilized, the proposed action to be undertaken by the bank, documentation indicating that the bank satisfies the prescribed federal standards, if any, to engage in the activity, and such other information as may be required by the department. Upon receipt of such notice, the commissioner shall determine whether the exercise of any federal power or the availing of any federal preclusion or preemption, or any part thereof, by the bank is inconsistent with the purposes of this chapter or presents undue risk to the safety and soundness of the banking system. In making such a determination, the commissioner shall consider the financial condition of the bank, the regulatory safety and soundness ratings of the bank, the ability of bank management to administer and supervise the activity, and the overall impact on the safety and soundness to all other state chartered banks. Based on such a determination, the commissioner may object to the exercise of the federal power, in whole or in part, or to the federal preclusion or preemption of the law, rule, or regulation of this state, in whole or in part, including objecting to a level or quantity above which a bank may be seeking to exercise a federal power or availing itself of any federal preclusion or preemption of law, rule, or regulation of this state. If the commissioner so objects, the commissioner shall deliver such objection in writing by certified or registered mail to the bank within 45 days of receipt of the notice; provided, however, that the commissioner may extend such period of review for an additional 45 days by providing the bank with written notice of such extension prior to the expiration of the initial notice period. If the commissioner sends such an objection, the federal power, preclusion, or preemption, or the part thereof, objected to by the commissioner shall not be exercised by the bank pursuant to subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section. The objection by the commissioner of a bank's intent to exercise a federal power or avail itself of any federal preclusion or preemption shall not preclude such bank from providing notice to the department of its intent to exercise the same federal power or to avail itself of the same federal preclusion or preemption at a later date; provided, however, that the requirements of this subsection shall be applicable for any such additional notice. Further, in the event a bank determines, after satisfying the notice provisions of this subsection, that it no longer wishes to exercise a federal power or avail itself of any federal preclusion or preemption, then such bank shall provide written notice of such fact to the commissioner by certified or registered mail.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of Code Section 7-1-70, the department shall publish information stating the federal powers that are being exercised or federal preemptions or preclusions that are being utilized by each bank. All other information related to the notices or objections provided under subsection (d) of this Code section are governed by Code Section 7-1-70.
(f) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, a bank may exercise any power that was granted through an order or ruling declared by the commissioner on or before January 1, 2018, pursuant to the current or former provisions of Code Section 7-1-61, 7-1-61.1, or 7-6A-12 and which has not been rescinded or withdrawn.
(g) Any federal power or activity authorized and exercised or conducted pursuant to this Code section shall be independent from, and in addition to, any other powers granted to banks under applicable laws of this state or rules or regulations promulgated thereunder. The express and incidental powers granted to banks under the Official Code of Georgia Annotated are not limited or otherwise restricted by this Code section.
(h) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed as limiting the commissioner's authority conferred by this chapter, including the powers granted under Code Sections 7-1-61 and 7-1-61.1.
(i) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed as authorizing the imposition of interest rates by a bank in excess of those authorized by Chapter 4 of this title nor shall any provision of this Code section be construed as permitting a bank to make loans in violation of Chapter 17 of Title 16.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 339,§ 6, eff. 5/3/2018.
