# § 7-1-511. Proposal and adoption of amendments

(a) An amendment of the articles shall be proposed by adoption of a resolution by the board of directors directing that it be submitted to a vote at a meeting of shareholders.
(b) The resolution proposing an amendment or amendments shall contain the language of each amendment by setting forth in full the articles as they would be amended or any provision thereof as it would be amended or by setting forth in full any matter to be added to or deleted from the articles. A copy of the resolution or a summary thereof shall be included with the notice of the meeting required under Code Section 7-1-6.
(c) Except as provided in subsections (d), (e), and (f) of this Code section, adoption of each amendment shall require the affirmative vote of the shareholders entitled to cast at least a majority of the votes which all shareholders are entitled to cast thereon and, if any class is entitled to vote thereon as a class, of the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding shares of such class.
(d) If a proposed amendment would:
  (1) Make any change in the preferences, redemption provisions, qualifications, limitations, restrictions, or special or relative rights of the shares of any class adverse to such class;
  (2) Increase or decrease the par value of the shares of any class;
  (3) Increase the authorized number of shares of any class;
  (4) Limit or deny the existing preemptive rights of the shares of any class; or
  (5) Authorize a new class of shares or increase the number of authorized shares of any class, senior or superior in any respect to the shares of any class previously authorized, the holders of the outstanding shares of such class shall be entitled to vote as a class on such amendment regardless of any limitation stated in the articles on the voting rights of such class.
(e) Any amendment for the purposes set forth in paragraph (7) of subsection (a) of Code Section 7-1-510 shall require for its adoption the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of all the shares entitled to vote thereon or of each class entitled to vote thereon where voting by class is required.
(f) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Code section, the board of directors may adopt a resolution amending the articles to change the name of the bank or trust company without shareholder action unless the articles provide otherwise.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 348,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2023.
