# § 7-1-438. Shareholders' agreements

(a) Unless otherwise unlawful, an agreement between two or more shareholders, if in writing and signed by the parties thereto and if a copy thereof is delivered to the department and approved by the department when, in its discretion, such agreement is in the best interest of the bank and the public, may provide that in exercising any voting rights the shares held by them shall be voted as therein provided, or as they may agree, or as determined in accordance with a procedure agreed upon by them. Nothing herein shall impair the right of the bank or trust company to treat the shareholders of record as entitled to vote the shares standing in their names.
(b) The duration of any agreement permitted by subsection (a) of this Code section shall not exceed 20 years. Failure to state a period of duration or stating a period of duration in excess of 20 years shall not invalidate the agreement, but in either such case the period of duration of the agreement shall be 20 years. Any such agreement shall be renewable at any time before the expiration of such 20 year period by agreement of all the shareholders bound thereby at the date of renewal.
(c) A transferee of shares in a bank or trust company whose shareholders have entered into an agreement authorized by subsection (a) of this Code section shall be bound by such agreement or any renewal of such agreement authorized by subsection (b) of this Code section if he takes the shares with notice thereof. A transferee shall be deemed to have notice of any such agreement or any renewal if the existence thereof is noted on the face or back of the certificate or certificates representing such shares.
