# § 7-1-192. Notice to depositors and other creditors to present claims

(a) After filing a supplement to the certificate of possession setting forth its determination to liquidate the affairs of a financial institution in receivership, the department shall forthwith give notice of such determination to all corporations or persons who appear upon the books of the financial institution as depositors or other creditors or who are otherwise known to the department to be or who claim to be depositors or other creditors or who have given notice to the department claiming a right of execution or attachment against any assets owned by or legally in the custody or possession of the financial institution.
(b) The notice to depositors shall state the amount which the books or other records of the financial institution show to be due to such depositor. It shall also state that unless such depositor shall, within a specified time, present to the department his bank statement or passbook or other evidence of his account showing a different amount to be due or unless such depositor shall, within a specified time from the date of such notice, otherwise prove in the manner provided by this chapter that a different amount is due, the amount shown to be due by the books of the financial institution will be conclusively presumed to be correct unless the court, pursuant to this chapter, grants him an extension of time.
(c) The notice to each creditor, other than a depositor, shall inform such creditor that he must present his claim in the manner provided by this chapter within a specified time from the date of such notice or else be permanently barred from sharing in any distribution of the assets of the financial institution unless the court, pursuant to this chapter, grants him an extension of time.
(d) The department shall also advertise, in the manner prescribed by this chapter, its determination to liquidate the financial institution. Such advertisement shall state that the department has filed an inventory and appraisement of the assets of the institution and shall designate the superior court with which such documents have been filed and shall describe the legal consequences to depositors and other creditors of failure to prove those claims within the time set in the notice. For purposes of this advertisement and other notices or advertisements required hereunder, the department may, to the extent it deems appropriate, describe shareholders of credit unions as such, not by use of the defined term "depositors" used in this chapter.
(e) The department shall specify as the last day upon which depositors and other creditors can prove their claims a date at least 30 days after the date of the sending of such notice to depositors and creditors. However, claims based upon deficiencies in, or surcharges with respect to, assets which such financial institution held in a fiduciary capacity may be proved at any time within six months after the appointment of a substituted fiduciary of the estate of which such assets were a part and the adjudication of the account of such estate by the competent court.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 7-4, eff. 7/1/2016.
