# § 7-1-6. Notices; waivers of notice

(1) Any notice required to be given under this chapter may be delivered in person or by first-class mail or statutory overnight delivery to the last known address of the person or corporation or to the registered office of the corporation. If the notice is sent by first-class mail or statutory overnight delivery, it shall be deemed to have been given when deposited in the United States mail or with a commercial firm regularly engaged in the business of document delivery;
(2) In addition to the methods of notice provided for in paragraph (1) of this Code section, notice of meetings, including annual and special meetings, may be delivered by electronic transmission, including but not limited to emails, pursuant to Code Section 14-2-141;
(3) If such notice is of a meeting, it shall specify the place, day, and hour of the meeting. Notice of a meeting of shareholders shall be given not less than ten nor more than 60 days before the meeting. Notice of a special meeting shall specify the general nature of the business to be transacted;
(4) Any written notice required to be given under this chapter need not be given if there is a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or on behalf of the corporation entitled to such notice or by their proxy, whether before or after the time when the notice would otherwise be required to be given, provided that no such waiver shall apply by its terms to more than one required notice;
(5) Attendance of a person, either in person or by proxy, at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where a person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting was not lawfully called or convened; and
(6) If the language of a proposed resolution or a proposed plan requiring approval by shareholders is included in a written notice of a meeting of shareholders, the shareholders' meeting considering the resolution or plan may adopt it with such clarifying or other amendments as do not enlarge its original purpose without further notice to shareholders not present in person or by proxy.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 339,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 64,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 7, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2005.
