# § 7-1-110. Permissive closing days; deferral of business conducted on Saturday

Any financial institution may remain closed one day each week in addition to Sundays and other legal holidays; and any act authorized, required, or permitted to be performed at or by any such financial institution on a day when it is closed may be performed on the next succeeding business day; and no liability or loss of rights of any kind shall result from the delay. Saturday shall not be construed to be a business day and any business conducted on Saturday may be deferred to the next succeeding business day, provided that such deferral is applicable to all business conducted by said financial institution on that day and is in accordance with a resolution adopted by the board of directors of the institution. Customers of any financial institution adopting such a deferral policy shall be notified of any such deferral of business by prominent notice posted in the lobby of the financial institution and by circularization in regular statement mailings at least 30 days prior to the effective date of any such deferral policy. Any financial institution changing its permissive closing day, temporarily or otherwise, shall post a notice of the change and the effective date thereof in a conspicuous place at each location affected by the change at least 30 days preceding the date of the change. Notwithstanding the foregoing, credit unions serving a limited membership base may establish uniform business hours and days consistent with the needs of their membership.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 7, eff. 7/29/2020.
