# § 7-1-439. Books and records

(a) Each bank and trust company shall keep correct and complete books and records of account and shall keep minutes of the proceedings of its shareholders, board of directors, and committees of directors; and each bank and trust company shall keep at its registered office or main office or at the office of its transfer agent or registrar a record of its shareholders, giving the names and addresses of all shareholders and the number, class, and series, if any, of the shares held by each.
(b) The department may, by regulation, prescribe the minimum disclosure of corporate records and reports which must be made by the bank or trust company to its shareholders at each annual meeting. In issuing such regulations, the department shall consider the legitimate rights of a shareholder to sufficient information to evaluate the management and use of his investment and to elect qualified directors for the bank or trust company as well as the rights of customers of the bank or trust company to maintain the confidentiality of their business affairs.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall impair the power of any court of competent jurisdiction, upon proof by a shareholder of proper purpose, irrespective of the period of time during which such shareholder shall have been a shareholder of record and irrespective of the number of shares held by him, to compel the production or examination by such shareholder of the books and records of account, minutes, and record of shareholders of a bank or trust company.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 7, eff. 5/13/2004.
