# § 7-1-912. Reporting requirements

(a)
  (1) Financial institutions and other money service businesses are required by state law to comply with the filing, reporting, and record-keeping requirements provided for in federal law. The department may promulgate regulations that specify additional requirements for currency transaction reports, record keeping, and suspicious activity reports.
  (2) Pursuant to federal law, a financial institution must keep a record of any currency transaction deemed suspicious for any reason, including transactions where money laundering is suspected, and file a report of such transaction with the appropriate federal authority. All such suspicious activity reports shall be simultaneously filed with the department, unless by regulation the department deems a federal filing to be adequate.
  (3) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply to transfers between banks, credit unions, or savings and loan associations chartered under the laws of any state or the United States which do not involve the payment or receipt of currency and which are accomplished through a wire or electronic transfer system operated by the Federal Reserve System, the Federal Home Loan Bank System, or other governmental agency or instrumentality; provided, however, that with regard to each such transfer the bank, credit union, or savings and loan association shall maintain a record of the name, address, and tax identification number of its customer, the name and location of the corresponding bank, credit union, or savings and loan association, and the name of the customer of the corresponding bank, credit union, or savings and loan association.
(b) The commissioner shall prescribe such regulations as he may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this article. Such regulations shall to the extent feasible be consistent with federal regulations and may provide for exemption of such transactions as the commissioner determines are clearly of a legitimate nature for which mandatory reporting would serve no useful purpose. The regulations shall provide for adequate safeguards against unauthorized currency transactions or transactions otherwise inconsistent with this article.
(c) The commissioner in his discretion may exercise the authority granted in Code Section 7-1-64 to assure that financial institutions subject to this article are in compliance herewith.
(d) No person shall for the purpose of evading the reporting requirements of this Code section:
  (1) Cause or attempt to cause a financial institution to fail to file a report required pursuant to this Code section;
  (2) Cause or attempt to cause a financial institution to file a report required pursuant to this Code section that contains a material omission or misstatement of fact; or
  (3) Structure or assist in structuring or attempt to structure or assist in structuring any currency transaction with one or more financial institutions.
(e) For purposes of this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Material omission or misstatement" shall include the furnishing of a false or erroneous name, address, taxpayer identification number, and business, profession, or occupation for the person performing the currency transaction or the beneficiary of such transaction or displaying or otherwise producing physical proof of identity on such persons which is forged, falsified, or otherwise altered; and
  (2) "Structuring" of a currency transaction means the division of a transaction which would otherwise be reportable under this Code section into two or more transactions which if considered separately would not be reportable.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 517, § 10, eff. 7/1/2004.
