# § 7-1-483. Meetings of board; quorum; committees; acting without meeting

(a) The board of directors shall hold regular meetings at such times as may be fixed by the bylaws and shall at all times be subject to call by the chairman of the board, by the president, or by any two members of the board. The board shall meet at least once in ten different months of each calendar year unless an alternative schedule is approved in writing by the department, but in no event shall the board meet less frequently than once in each calendar quarter.
(b) Unless otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws:
  (1) A majority of all the directors in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business; and actions of a majority of those present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be actions of the board;
  (2) The board of directors may designate three or more of its number to constitute an executive committee or other committees which, to the extent provided in such resolution, shall have and exercise the authority of the board of directors in regard to the business of the bank or trust company;
  (3) Any action which may be taken at a meeting of the directors or of the members of an executive or other committee may be taken without a meeting if a consent or consents in writing setting forth the action shall be signed by all of the directors or all of the members of the executive or other committee and filed with the secretary of the bank or trust company; and
  (4) The board of directors may determine that a meeting of such board will be held, in whole or in part, by any means of communication by which all directors participating may simultaneously hear each other during the meeting. A director participating in a meeting by this means shall be considered to be present in person at the meeting.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 174,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2021.
