# § 7-1-157. General powers of department in possession

(a) The department in possession shall be vested with all the rights, powers, and duties of such financial institution; with the title or the right to possession of all property to which the financial institution has title or the right to possession, including debts due, and liens and other security therefor; and with the financial institution's rights of action or redemption. This shall be so whether such property and debts due, such liens or other security therefor, or such rights of action or redemption are held in the name of such financial institution or in the name of some other corporation or person.
(b) The department shall be the representative of the creditors of the financial institution and shall be entitled, as such, to have vacated and set aside, for the benefit of the creditors, any judgment, execution, attachment, sequestration, payment, security interest, assignment, transfer, conveyance, or encumbrance which could have been avoided by any of the creditors or by which one creditor is given a preference over another. As used in this subsection, the term "preference" means all transfers of the assets of a financial institution made or suffered, either after or in contemplation of insolvency, for the purpose of allowing a creditor to gain more than his ratable share of the assets of the institution as determined by Code Section 7-1-202.
(c) The department is authorized to collect all moneys due to the financial institution and to do such other acts as are necessary to conserve its assets and business. In exercising its power as receiver, the department shall give first consideration to the interests of depositors and other creditors as a whole and shall give consideration to the interests of shareholders and other owners only when depositors and other creditors have received or are assured of full payment of their claims.
(d) The department as receiver shall have the power to execute in its name or in the name of the financial institution any instrument necessary or proper to effectuate its powers or perform its duties as receiver. Any instrument executed in the name of the institution pursuant to the authority given by this subsection shall be valid and effectual for all purposes as though executed by proper officers of the institution by authority of its board of directors or other governing body.
