# § 7-1-35. Deputy commissioners, examiners, and assistants

(a) The commissioner shall appoint from time to time, with the right to discharge at will, a senior deputy commissioner of banking and finance. The commissioner may appoint additional deputy commissioners as needed. All deputy commissioners shall also be ex officio examiners. The commissioner may appoint such additional examiners and assistants as he or she may need to discharge in a proper manner the duties imposed upon the commissioner by law, subject to any applicable state laws or rules or regulations and within the limitations of the appropriation to the department as prescribed in this chapter. Hiring, promotion, and other personnel policies of the department shall be consistent with guidelines or directives of the state, shall be in writing, and shall be made available upon request to employees of the department.
(b) Within the limitations of its annual appropriation, the department may expend funds pursuant to the authority granted under Article VIII, Section VII, Paragraph I of the 1983 Constitution of Georgia necessary to the recruitment, training, and certification of a professional staff of financial examiners. The department may provide for the participation of examiners in such educational, training, and certification programs as the commissioner deems necessary to the continued qualification and recognition of the professional status of examiners. The department may recognize independent certification of professional qualifications as supplemental to the rules and regulations of the State Personnel Board in considering the personnel actions relative to its examiners.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 3, eff. 5/5/2005.
