# § 7-1-151. Status of department as receiver; restrictions on appointment

(a) Upon taking possession of a financial institution, the department shall automatically become the receiver of said institution with all rights, powers, and duties conferred by this chapter and, to the extent not in conflict with this chapter, all rights, powers, and duties of a receiver appointed pursuant to Chapters 5 and 8 of Title 9, relating to injunctions and receivers.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, no court shall appoint anyone but the department as receiver of a financial institution. Whenever any court, at the instance of the department, a depositor, a shareholder, or other person entitled by law to institute such proceedings, shall determine that a receiver should be appointed, for any reason whatsoever, it shall appoint the department as such receiver. When thus appointed receiver by a court, the department shall serve in the same manner and with the same limitations and shall have the same rights, powers, and duties as when it becomes receiver by operation of law and without appointment by any court. No court shall impose upon the department as receiver any duties or restrictions in conflict with this chapter.
(c) In any proceeding for the appointment of a receiver of an institution whose deposits or shares are insured by a public body of the United States, the court may upon the recommendation of the department (whether or not the department is a party) appoint said public body or its administrator as receiver. If said public body or its administrator accepts the appointment, it or he or she shall have all the rights, powers, and duties of the department as receiver under this chapter and all the rights, powers, and duties as conferred by other applicable law. The public body or its administrator may act as receiver without bond.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 6, eff. 5/5/2005.
