# § 7-1-664. Credit union equipment, operations, and locations

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Automated teller machine" means electronic equipment which performs routine banking transactions, including, but not limited to, the taking of deposits for the public at locations off premises of a credit union's main or branch office under regulations prescribed by the commissioner. Such term includes electronic equipment that utilizes, or has the capability to utilize, live video chat with offsite credit union personnel capable of assisting with banking services, including, but not limited to, account initiation.
  (2) "Cash dispensing machine" means an automated or electronic terminal which dispenses cash or scrip redeemable for goods and services or for cash, goods, and services; provided, however, that such terminal is not capable of initiating intrabank transactions other than those necessary and incidental to the dispensing of cash.
  (3) "Extension" means a location at which banking activity may occur but which is not a branch or main office.
  (4) "Night depository" means a drop box where customers can make deposits or payments outside of normal banking hours.
  (5) "Point-of-sale terminal" means electronic equipment located in non-credit union business outlets to record electronically credit union transactions occurring as a result of the sale of goods or services.
(b) A credit union location shall be authorized to operate an automated teller machine, cash dispensing machine, night depository, or point-of-sale terminal without prior approval of the department; provided, however, that such extension complies with the requirements of this Code section and any rules and regulations of the department relating to notification.
(c) A credit union may operate an extension as follows:
  (1) Any federally insured credit union may operate an automated teller machine at any location in the state;
  (2) Any credit union may operate a cash dispensing machine at any location in the state;
  (3) Any credit union may operate an automated teller machine or a cash dispensing machine individually or jointly with one or more credit unions;
  (4) Any credit union may operate a night depository or point-of-sale terminal at any location in the state;
  (5) Any credit union may operate an extension not defined in subsection (a) of this Code section, provided that such extension is located within 200 yards of the boundary lines of a single contiguous area of property owned or leased by the credit union and used as a credit union location. Prior to the operation of such extension, the credit union shall notify the department in writing; and
  (6) All other extensions must be approved by the department prior to the operation of such extension.
(d) This Code section shall not apply to personal communication devices such as telephones, computer terminals, modems, and other similar devices which are not accessible to the general public but are intended for use by a single credit union member. The department may by regulation further define "automated teller machine," "cash dispensing machine," "night depository," "point-of-sale terminal," and "personal communication device" consistent with the objectives set forth in Code Section 7-1-3.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 492,§ 12, eff. 1/1/2021.
