# § 7-1-232. Procedure for approval or disapproval of proposed acquisition

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term "financial institution" shall include any "bank holding company" as that term is defined in subsection (a) of Code Section 7-1-605.
(b) The department shall be given at least 60 days' prior written notice of any such proposed acquisition. The department may extend the period during which a disapproval may issue for another 30 days. The period for disapproval may be further extended only if the department determines that any acquiring party has not furnished all the information required under Code Section 7-1-233 or that in its judgment any material information submitted is substantially inaccurate. An acquisition may be made prior to expiration of the disapproval period if the department issues written notice of its intent not to disapprove the action.
(c) Within three days after its decision to disapprove any proposed acquisition, the department shall notify the acquiring party in writing of the disapproval. Such notice shall provide a statement of the basis for the disapproval.
(d) Within ten days of receipt of such notice of disapproval, the acquiring party may request a hearing on the proposed acquisition. At the conclusion thereof, the department shall by order approve or disapprove the proposed acquisition on the basis of the record made at such hearing.
(e) Any person whose proposed acquisition is disapproved after a department hearing under this Code section may obtain review in accordance with Code Section 7-1-90.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 748,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2022.
