# § 7-1-1013. Prohibition of certain acts

(1) Misrepresent the material facts, make false statements or promises, or submit false statements or documents likely to influence, persuade, or induce an applicant for a mortgage loan, a mortgagee, or a mortgagor to take a mortgage loan, or, through agents or otherwise, pursue a course of misrepresentation by use of fraudulent or unauthorized documents or other means to the department or anyone;
(2) Misrepresent or conceal or cause another to misrepresent or conceal material factors, terms, or conditions of a transaction to which a mortgage lender or broker is a party, pertinent to an applicant or application for a mortgage loan or a mortgagor;
(3) Fail to disburse funds in accordance with a written commitment or agreement to make a mortgage loan;
(4) Improperly refuse to issue a satisfaction of a mortgage loan;
(5) Fail to account for or deliver to any person any personal property obtained in connection with a mortgage loan such as money, funds, deposit, check, draft, mortgage, or other document or thing of value which has come into the possession of a licensee and which is not the property of the licensee, or which the mortgage lender or broker is not in law or at equity entitled to retain;
(6) Engage in any transaction, practice, or course of business which is not in good faith or fair dealing, or which operates a fraud upon any person, in connection with the attempted or actual making of, purchase of, transfer of, or sale of any mortgage loan;
(7) Engage in any fraudulent home mortgage underwriting practices;
(8) Induce, require, or otherwise permit the applicant for a mortgage loan or mortgagor to sign a security deed, note, loan application, or other pertinent financial disclosure documents with any blank spaces to be filled in after it has been signed, except blank spaces relating to recording or other incidental information not available at the time of signing;
(9) Make, directly or indirectly, any residential mortgage loan with the intent to foreclose on the borrower's property. For purposes of this paragraph, there shall be a presumption that a person has made a residential mortgage loan with the intent to foreclose on the borrower's property if the following circumstances can be demonstrated:
  (A) Lack of substantial benefit to the borrower;
  (B) Lack of probability of full payment of the loan by the borrower; and
  (C) A significant proportion of similarly foreclosed loans by such person;
(10) Provide an extension of credit or collect a mortgage debt by extortionate means; or
(11) Purposely withhold, delete, destroy, or alter information requested by an examiner of the department or make false statements or material misrepresentations to the department or the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry or in connection with any investigation conducted by the department or another governmental agency.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 474,§ 1-30, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 7, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 66,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 35, eff. 5/5/2005.
