# § 7-1-66. Method of examination and investigations; special examiners; subpoenas

(a) Examinations and investigations shall be made by the commissioner or by qualified examiners or employees empowered in writing by the department to make examinations or investigations. The department may, when the occasion requires, appoint special examiners and prescribe their duties and powers.
(b) Officials authorized to make examinations or investigations shall have the power and authority to administer oaths and to examine under oath any person (including any officer, director, agent, attorney, member, or employee of any financial institution) whose testimony may be relevant to the examination or investigation. Such officials shall have the authority and power to compel the appearance and attendance of any such person and the production by such person of pertinent books and papers, including books and papers to which the person has access because of his position with a financial institution, and for such purposes shall have the authority to issue a subpoena requiring the appearance and attendance of any such person or for the production of any pertinent books and papers.
(c) If any person shall fail or refuse to obey an order or subpoena issued by the department, a court of appropriate jurisdiction, upon application by the department, may issue an order requiring such person to appear before the court to show cause as to why he or she should not be adjudged in contempt and punished accordingly for refusal to obey the subpoena.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 57,§ 2, eff. 6/1/2017.
