# § 7-1-608. Bank holding companies; lawful and unlawful acquisitions; waiver

(a) It shall be unlawful for a bank holding company to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank, including any federal savings and loan association or federal savings bank, if, after such acquisition, such bank holding company will directly or indirectly own or control 5 percent or more of the voting shares of such bank, or for any company to become a bank holding company as a result of the acquisition of control of such bank, unless:
  (1) The bank being acquired is either a "bank" for the purposes of the federal Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (12 U.S.C. Section 1841), or a "savings and loan," a "state savings and loan," a "savings bank," or a "federal savings bank" whose deposits are insured under a federal deposit insurance program; and
  (2) Such bank of the type described in paragraph (1) of this subsection has been in existence and continuously operating or incorporated as a bank for a period of three years or more prior to the date of acquisition.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Code section, the following activities are permitted. These activities regarding acquisitions by purchase and by formation are to be considered exceptions to the three-year age requirement contained in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section:
  (1) A bank holding company may acquire all or substantially all of the shares of a bank or trust company organized solely for the purpose of facilitating the acquisition of a federal or state chartered bank, savings and loan association, savings bank, or other corporation doing a banking business in this state or the trust department of such institutions, which has been in existence and continuously operating or incorporated as such an institution or exercising trust powers for the minimum period prescribed in subsection (a) of this Code section;
  (2) A company may become a bank holding company by virtue of acquiring control of a bank if neither the company nor any other company controlled by or controlling such company controls any other bank domiciled in this state or elsewhere;
  (3) A bank holding company may acquire control through formation of a de novo bank in Georgia, provided that departmental approval and any required federal approvals are obtained; and
  (4) A de novo bank established or formed pursuant to paragraph (3) of this subsection shall be subject to the three-year age requirement contained in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section. A bank holding company may, however, merge or consolidate a de novo bank which may be less than three years old and that is established pursuant to paragraph (3) of this subsection into another bank owned by that holding company.
(c) The department may waive the application of the three-year age requirement in the case of a bank that has been found by federal or state regulators to be:
  (1) Insolvent or in an unsafe or unsound condition to transact its business;
  (2) In a condition where it has generally suspended payment of its obligations without authority of law; or
  (3) Under any plan, order, or agreement of any kind with the FDIC under Section 12, 13, or 38 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act, 12 U.S.C. Section 1811, et seq., as amended.
(d) The commissioner may waive the three-year age requirement contained in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section if the commissioner determines that the proposed acquisition will result in material improvement of the safety and soundness of an institution that is in less than satisfactory condition at the time of the proposed acquisition. No such waiver will be authorized unless the commissioner determines that the proposed acquisition will not present undue safety and soundness risks to the financial institutions involved. In making such determination, the commissioner shall consider the financial condition and regulatory safety and soundness ratings of the institutions affected and the ability of management to administer and supervise the resulting institution.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 270,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 7-4, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 64,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 256,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 793, § 1, eff. 5/10/2002.
