# § 7-1-436. Voting of shares

(a) Unless otherwise provided in the articles, each outstanding share entitled to vote, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of shareholders. A subscriber shall not be entitled to vote the share subscribed for until such shares have been fully paid.
(b) Treasury shares shall not be voted at any meeting nor counted in determining the total number of outstanding shares at any given time.
(c) The chairman of the board, chief executive officer, president, any vice-president, the secretary, or the treasurer of a corporation which is the holder of record of shares of a bank or trust company shall be deemed by the bank or trust company to have authority to vote such shares and to execute proxies and written waivers and consents in relation thereto, whether such shares are held in a fiduciary capacity or otherwise, unless, before a vote is taken or a waiver of consent is acted upon, it is made to appear by a certified copy of the bylaws or resolution of the board of directors or executive committee of the corporation holding such shares that such authority does not exist or is vested in some other officer or person. In the absence of such certification, a person executing any such proxies, waivers, or consents or presenting himself or herself at a meeting as one of such officers of a corporate shareholder shall, for the purposes of this Code section, be prima facie deemed to be duly elected, qualified, and acting as such officer and to be fully authorized; and, in the case of conflicting representation, the corporate shareholder shall be deemed to be represented by its senior officer in the order first stated in this subsection.
(d) Shares held by an administrator, executor, guardian, or conservator may be voted by him, either in person or by proxy, without a transfer of such shares into his name. Shares standing in the name of a trustee may be voted by him, either in person or by proxy; but no trustee shall be entitled to vote shares held by him without a transfer of such shares into his name or the name of his nominee. Shares standing in the name of a person as life tenant may be voted by him, either in person or by proxy, unless the record of shareholders shows that he is not entitled to vote such shares.
(e) Shares standing in the name of a receiver may be voted by such receiver; and shares held by or under the control of a receiver may be voted by such receiver without a transfer thereof into his name if authority to do so is contained in an order of the court by which such receiver was appointed.
(f) If a share or shares stand of record in the names of two or more persons, whether fiduciaries, joint tenants, tenants in common, tenants in partnership, or otherwise, or if two or more persons have the same fiduciary relationship respecting the same share or shares, then unless the instrument or order appointing them or creating the tenancy otherwise directs and such instrument or order or a copy thereof is filed with the secretary of the bank or trust company, their acts with respect to voting shall have the following effect:
  (1) If only one votes, in person or by proxy, his act binds all;
  (2) If more than one votes, in person or by proxy, the act of the majority so voting binds all;
  (3) If more than one votes in person or by proxy but the votes are evenly split on any particular matter, each faction is entitled to vote the share or shares in question proportionally;
  (4) If the instrument or order so filed shows that any such tenancy is held in unequal interest, a majority or even-split for purposes of this subsection shall be a majority or even-split in interest;
  (5) The principles of this subsection shall apply, insofar as possible, to execution of proxies, waivers, consents, or objections and for the purpose of ascertaining the presence of a quorum.
(g) A shareholder whose shares are pledged shall be entitled to vote such shares until the shares have been transferred into the name of the pledgee, or a nominee of the pledgee; and thereafter the pledgee or his nominee shall be entitled to vote the shares so transferred.
(h) Notwithstanding subsections (a) through (g) of this Code section, a corporation shall be protected from liability in relying on and treating the persons in whose names shares stand on the record of shareholders as the owners thereof for all purposes.
(i) When notice of redemption of redeemable shares has been mailed to the holders thereof and a sum sufficient to redeem such shares has been set aside to pay the redemption price to shareholders, such shares shall not be entitled to vote in any manner and shall not be deemed to be outstanding shares.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 7-9, eff. 7/1/2016.
