# § 7-1-230. Definitions

(1) "Concert with one or more persons" includes, but is not limited to, the following persons and relationships:
  (A) A company and any controlling shareholder, partner, trustee, or management official of the company if both the company and the individual own voting securities of the financial institution;
  (B) An individual and the individual's immediate family;
  (C) Companies under common control;
  (D) Persons that are parties to any agreement, contract, understanding, or other arrangement, whether written or otherwise, regarding the acquisition, voting, or transfer of control of voting securities of a financial institution;
  (E) Persons that have made, or propose to make, a joint filing under Section 13 or 14 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules promulgated thereunder by the United States Securities and Exchange Commission; and
  (F) A person and any trust for which the person serves as trustee.
(2) "Control" means the power directly or indirectly to direct the management or policies of a financial institution or to vote 25 percent or more of any class of voting securities of a financial institution.
(3) "Person" means an individual or a corporation, partnership, trust, association, joint venture, pool, syndicate, sole proprietorship, unincorporated organization, or any other form of entity not specifically listed in this paragraph.
(4) "Presumption of control" means a person which directly or indirectly owns, controls, or has the power to vote more than 10 percent but less than 25 percent of any class of voting securities of a financial institution if no other persons will own, control, or hold the power to vote a greater percentage of that class of voting securities immediately after the transaction.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 748,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
