# § 7-1-625. Provisions applicable to, and qualification of, bank holding companies in state; reciprocal agreements; confidentiality of reports

(a) Any Georgia bank holding company controlling a bank having banking offices in Georgia and any out-of-state bank holding company controlling a Georgia state bank shall be subject to the provisions of Code Sections 7-1-605 through 7-1-611 and the rules and regulations of the department applicable to bank holding companies.
(b) Any out-of-state bank holding company that has a bank subsidiary with banking offices in Georgia that is not otherwise organized under the laws of this state or qualified to do business in this state shall qualify to do business in this state as a foreign corporation.
(c) The department may enter into cooperative and reciprocal agreements with the bank regulatory authorities of any state or the United States for the periodic examination of bank holding companies and may accept reports of examination and other records from such authorities in lieu of conducting its own examinations. The department may enter into joint actions with other regulatory bodies having concurrent jurisdiction or may enter into such actions independently to carry out its responsibilities under this title and assure compliance with the laws of this state. Any examinations or reports originated by Georgia or by another bank supervisory agency shall be deemed and treated as confidential according to Georgia law, and such confidentiality shall not be affected by the sharing of the examinations or reports. The department shall not be obligated to provide or disclose such examinations and reports to any third party. Agreements to share such examinations or reports shall contain provisions for dealing with confidentiality and subpoenas.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 348,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 748,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 339,§ 12, eff. 5/3/2018.
