# § 7-1-634. Amendment of articles and bylaws; fee for investigation; approval or denial by department

(a) Amendments to the bylaws of a credit union may be adopted and amendments of the articles may be requested by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the authorized number of members of the board of directors at any duly held meeting thereof if the members of the board have been given prior written notice of said meeting and the notice has contained a copy of the proposed amendment or amendments. No amendment of the bylaws or of the articles shall become effective until approved in writing by the department.
(b) Every proposed amendment of the articles shall be filed with the department together with the fee specified in Code Section 7-1-862. Proposed amendments of the bylaws shall be filed with the department.
(c) The credit union may amend its bylaws to change its field of membership by adding additional groups of persons subject to the following conditions:
  (1) Each new group must have a common bond that meets one of the descriptions in subsection (b) of Code Section 7-1-630; and
  (2) The credit union must pay such fee as may be established by the department to defray the cost of investigation.
(d) The department shall grant or deny approval of a complete and accepted application to amend the bylaws within 90 days, subject to safety and soundness and other criteria established by the department for these applications.
(e) The department shall maintain a permanent record of any approved amendment to the bylaws of a credit union which changes the field of membership proposed in the original articles or as subsequently amended.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 64,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 14, eff. 5/5/2005.
