# § 7-1-553. Approval or disapproval by department

(a) In the case of a conversion, the department shall conduct such investigation as it may deem necessary to ascertain whether:
  (1) The articles of conversion and supporting items satisfy the requirements of this chapter;
  (2) The plan adequately protects the interests of depositors, other than creditors and shareholders; and
  (3) The requirements for a conversion under all applicable laws have been satisfied and the resulting institution would satisfy the requirements of this chapter applicable to it.
(b) Within 90 days after receipt of the articles and the filings required by Code Section 7-1-552, the department shall, in its discretion, approve or disapprove the articles on the basis of its investigation and the criteria set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section. If the department shall approve the articles, it shall deliver its written approval with a copy of the articles attached to the Secretary of State and notify the national bank, and any other parties to the plan, of its action, provided that, if approval of any federal agency is required, the department may elect to not act on the application until such federal approval is given. If the department shall disapprove, at its option, the application, it shall give written notice to the national bank and any other parties to the plan of its disapproval and a statement to them generally of the reasons for its decision. The decision of the department shall be conclusive, except that it may be subject to judicial review under Code Section 7-1-90.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 174,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2021.
