# § 7-1-606. Prohibited activities of bank holding company or subsidiary; exceptions

(a)
  (1) It shall be unlawful, except with the prior approval of the commissioner:
    (A) For any action to be taken that causes any company to become a bank holding company;
    (B) For any action to be taken that causes a bank to become a subsidiary of a bank holding company;
    (C) For any bank holding company to acquire direct or indirect ownership or control of any voting shares of any bank if, after such acquisition, such company will directly or indirectly own or control 5 percent or more of the voting shares of such bank;
    (D) For any bank holding company or subsidiary thereof, other than a bank, to acquire all or substantially all of the assets of a bank;
    (E) For any bank holding company to merge or consolidate with, or enter into a share exchange with, any other bank holding company; or
    (F) For any bank holding company to take any action which would violate the federal Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended.
  (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this subsection, these prohibitions shall not apply to:
    (A) Shares acquired by a bank:
      (i) In good faith in a fiduciary capacity, except where such shares are held under a trust that constitutes a company as defined in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 7-1-605 and except as provided in paragraphs (2) and (3) of subsection (c) of Code Section 7-1-605; or
      (ii) In the regular course of securing or collecting a debt previously contracted in good faith, but such shares in securing or collecting any such previously contracted debt shall be disposed of within a period of two years from the date on which they were acquired;
    (B) Additional shares acquired by a bank holding company in a bank in which such bank holding company owned or controlled a majority of the voting shares prior to such acquisition;
    (C) A bank holding company of a national bank with its main office in Georgia acquiring a Georgia bank holding company, as such term is defined in paragraph (10) of Code Section 7-1-621, provided that such bank holding company has notified the department upon filing an application with the appropriate federal or state financial regulator and that the department has not objected to the transaction in accordance with the provisions of this subparagraph. The notification requirements of this subparagraph shall be satisfied by furnishing the department with a copy of the application or applications filed with the applicable bank supervisory agencies seeking approval for the proposed transaction and such other information as the department may request. In addition, the parties to such transaction shall file with the department a certificate of approval of the acquisition by the appropriate supervisory agencies prior to consummation of the transaction. The department may, for good cause shown, object to the transaction by letter to the bank holding company of a national bank with its main office in Georgia, the Georgia bank holding company, and to the appropriate federal or state financial regulator before consummation of the transaction. In the event of such objection, the acquisition cannot be consummated without the parties obtaining the approval of the department. Unless the department has objected to the transaction, the department shall forward to the Secretary of State written confirmation that the requirements of this subparagraph have been satisfied; or
    (D) Transactions for which the department has established by rule, regulation, or written policy a streamlined or alternative procedure, if such procedure specifically dispenses with the need for approval by the commissioner. For the purpose of this paragraph, bank shares shall not be deemed to have been acquired in good faith in a fiduciary capacity if the acquiring bank or company has sole discretionary authority to exercise voting rights with respect thereto; but, in such instances, acquisitions may be made without prior approval of the commissioner if the commissioner, upon application filed within 90 days after the shares are acquired, approves retention or, if retention is disapproved, the acquiring bank disposes of the shares or its sole discretionary voting rights within two years after issuance of the order of disapproval.
(b)
  (1) The commissioner shall not approve nor shall any other procedure authorize:
    (A) Any acquisition or merger or share exchange or consolidation under this Code section which would result in a monopoly or which would be in furtherance of any combination or conspiracy to monopolize or to attempt to monopolize the business of banking in any part of the State of Georgia; or
    (B) Any other proposed acquisition or merger or share exchange or consolidation under this Code section whose effect in any section of the state may be substantially to lessen competition, or to tend to create a monopoly, or which in any other manner would be in restraint of trade, unless it finds that the anticompetitive effects of the proposed transaction are clearly outweighed in the public interest by the probable effect of the transaction in meeting the convenience and needs of the community to be served.
  (2) In every case, the department shall take into consideration the financial and managerial resources and future prospects of the company or companies and the banks concerned.
(c) Reserved.
(d) The commissioner shall not grant any such contemplated approval until he or she shall first cause reasonable public notice of the proposed action to be given in the area to be affected and until he or she shall first afford to the public an opportunity to submit, for the commissioner's consideration, information, objections, and opinions as to the proposed action and its effect. The notice requirement may not apply in the case of a streamlined procedure where the holding company meets certain qualifying criteria established by rule, regulation, or written policy of the department.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this part, a bank holding company which lawfully controls a bank or has received the requisite approvals under this Code section to acquire control of a bank may, with the approval of the commissioner, or as otherwise provided in this chapter or by departmental rule or regulation, either at the time such control is obtained or at any time thereafter, merge or consolidate such bank with another of such bank holding company's banking subsidiaries or have another of such bank holding company's banking subsidiaries acquire all or substantially all of the assets of such bank and consequently operate as a branch office of such other banking subsidiary. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to supersede, rescind, or modify any provision, requirement, or condition of this Code section which would otherwise be applicable to any acquisition of a banking subsidiary by a bank holding company under this Code section, nor shall it be deemed to supersede, rescind, or modify any provision, requirement, or condition of Part 14, 16, 19, or 20 of this article which would otherwise be applicable to the merger of banks or the acquisition or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of a bank.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 474,§ 1-8, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 748,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 256,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2007.
