# § 7-1-1016. Regulations relative to advertising

(1)
  (A) Advertisements for loans regulated under this article shall not be false, misleading, or deceptive. No person whose activities are regulated under this article shall advertise in any manner so as to indicate or imply that its interest rates or charges for loans are in any way "recommended," "approved," "set," or "established" by the state or this article.
  (B) An advertisement shall not include an individual's loan number, loan amount, or other publicly available information unless it is clearly and conspicuously stated in boldface type at the beginning of the advertisement that the person disseminating it is not authorized by, in sponsorship with, or otherwise affiliated with the individual's lender, which shall be identified by name. Such an advertisement shall also state that the loan information contained therein was not provided by the recipient's lender; and
(2) All advertisements, including websites, disseminated by a licensee in this state by any means shall contain the name, which shall conform to a name on record with the department, and unique identifier, which shall clearly indicate that the number was issued by the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry, of the licensee.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 474,§ 1-33, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 492,§ 22, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 7, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 66,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 256,§ 38, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 945, § 13, eff. 7/1/2002.
