# § 7-1-351. Minors' deposits and safe-deposit agreements

(a) A bank may receive deposits from:
  (1) A minor who is at least 16 years of age; or
  (2) One or more minors jointly with one or more adults, as party to and with the same effect as a multiple-party account under Article 8 of this chapter.
(b) A bank may use electronic means, including, but not limited to, wire and mobile application software, to provide access to and facilitate the movement of money in such deposit account.
(c) A bank or trust company may rent a safe-deposit box or other receptacle for safe deposit of property to, and receive property for safe deposit from:
  (1) A minor who is at least 16 years of age; or
  (2) One or more minors jointly with one or more adults.
(d) A bank or trust company may deal with a minor who is at least 16 years of age with respect to a deposit account or safe-deposit agreement covered by paragraph (1) of subsection (a) or paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of this Code section without the consent of a parent or guardian and with the same effect as though the minor were an adult. A parent or guardian shall not have any right in that capacity to interfere with any such transaction. Any action of the minor with respect to such deposit account or safe-deposit agreement shall be binding on the minor with the same effect as though the minor were an adult.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be deemed to require a bank or trust company to provide deposit accounts or safe-deposit agreements authorized by this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 57,§ 9, eff. 6/1/2017.
