# § 7-1-490. Responsibility of directors and officers; delegation of investment decisions

(a) Directors and officers of a bank or trust company shall discharge the duties of their respective positions in good faith and with the degree of diligence, care, and skill which an ordinarily prudent person would exercise under similar circumstances.
(b) In performing his or her duties, a director or officer may be entitled to rely upon:
  (1) Other officers, employees, or agents of the bank or trust company whom the director or officer reasonably believed to be reliable and competent in the functions performed; and
  (2) Information, data, opinions, reports, or statements provided by other officers, employees, agents of the bank or trust company, legal counsel, public accountants, investment bankers, or other persons as to matters involving the skills, expertise, or knowledge reasonably believed to be reliable and within such person's professional or expert competence.
(c) There shall be a presumption that the process directors and officers followed in arriving at decisions was done in good faith and that such directors and officers have exercised ordinary care; provided, however, that this presumption may be rebutted by evidence that such process constitutes gross negligence by being a gross deviation of the standard of care of a director or officer in a like position under similar circumstances.
(d) A bank, through its board of directors, may delegate to a correspondent bank the power to determine, within the limits set by law, the investments in which its assets, including reserve assets, may be held, provided that the bank must obtain the prior written approval of the department for such delegation.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall:
  (1) In any instance when fairness is at issue, such as consideration of the fairness of a transaction to the bank or trust company as evaluated under paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of Code Section 14-2-861, alter the burden of proving the fact or lack of fairness otherwise applicable;
  (2) Alter the fact or lack of liability of a director or officer under the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, including Code Sections 7-1-492 and 7-1-494;
  (3) Affect any rights to which the bank or trust company or its shareholders may be entitled under another law of this state or of the United States; or
  (4) Deprive a director or officer of the applicability, effect, or protection of the business judgment rule.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 7, eff. 5/12/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 248,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
