# § 7-1-628.6. Powers of out-of-state banks branching into Georgia

(a) An out-of-state state bank which establishes and maintains one or more branches in Georgia under this part may conduct any activities at such branch or branches that are authorized under the law of this state for Georgia state banks.
(b) A Georgia state bank may conduct any activities at any branch outside Georgia that are authorized by Georgia law or that are permissible for a bank chartered by the host state where the branch is located, except to the extent such activities are expressly prohibited by the laws of this state or by any regulation or order of the commissioner applicable to the Georgia state bank and except where the activity is one that requires approval from the department, in which case such approval must be secured; provided, however, that the commissioner may waive any prohibition or requirement for approval if he or she determines, by order or regulation, that the involvement of out-of-state branches of the Georgia state bank in particular activities would not threaten the safety or soundness of such bank.
(c) An out-of-state bank that has established or acquired a branch in Georgia under this part may establish or acquire additional branches in Georgia to the same extent, but to no greater extent, that any Georgia bank may establish or acquire a branch in Georgia under applicable federal and state law.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 492,§ 9, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 2-24, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 299, § 8, eff. 7/1/2001.
