# § 7-1-433. Closing of transfer books or fixing record date

(a) For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend, or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other proper purpose, the board of directors of a bank or trust company may provide that the stock transfer books shall be closed for a stated period not to exceed, in any case, 70 days. If the stock transfer books shall be closed for the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders, such books shall be closed for at least ten days immediately preceding such meeting.
(b) In lieu of closing the stock transfer books, the bylaws or, in the absence of an applicable bylaw, the board of directors may fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of shareholders, such date in any case to be not more than 70 days and, in case of a meeting of shareholders, not less than ten days prior to the date on which the particular action requiring such determination of shareholders is to be taken.
(c) If the stock transfer books are not closed and no record date is fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of shareholders or shareholders entitled to receive payment of a dividend, the date on which notice of the meeting is mailed, or the date on which the resolution of the board of directors declaring such dividend is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for such determination of stockholders.
(d) When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made, as provided in this Code section, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof, unless the board of directors fixes a new record date under this Code section for the adjourned meeting.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 9, eff. 5/5/2005.
