# § 7-1-437. Proxies

(a) Unless otherwise unlawful, a person or corporation who is entitled to attend a shareholders' meeting, to vote thereat, or to execute consents, waivers, or releases may be represented at such meeting or vote thereat, and execute consents, waivers, and releases, and exercise any of his or her other rights, by one or more agents, who may be either an individual or individuals or any domestic or foreign corporation, authorized by a written proxy or electronic transmission of proxy executed by such person or by his or her attorney in fact.
(b) No proxy shall be valid after the expiration of 11 months from the date thereof unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the person executing it, except as otherwise provided in this Code section.
(c) Subject to the limitation of subsection (b) of this Code section, any proxy duly executed is not revoked and continues in full force and effect until an instrument revoking it, or a duly executed proxy bearing a later date, is received by the secretary of the bank or trust company. A proxy is not revoked by the death or incapacity of the maker unless, before the vote is counted or the authority is exercised, written notice of such death or incapacity is received by the secretary of the bank or trust company. Notwithstanding that a valid proxy is outstanding, the powers of the proxyholder are suspended, except in the case of a valid proxy which is by law irrevocable and which states on its face that it is irrevocable, if the maker is present at the meeting and elects to vote in person.
(d) If a proxy for the same shares confers authority upon two or more persons and does not otherwise provide, a majority of them present at the meeting or, if only one is present, then that one may exercise all the powers conferred by the proxy; but, if the proxyholders present at the meeting are divided as to the right and manner of voting in any particular case and there is no majority, the voting of said shares shall be prorated.
(e) If a proxy expressly provides, any proxyholder may, unless otherwise unlawful, appoint in writing a substitute to act in his or her place.
(f) A shareholder shall not sell his or her vote or issue a proxy to vote to any person for any sum of money or anything of value, except as permitted in this Code section and in Code Section 7-1-438, relating to shareholders' agreements.
(g) To be irrevocable, a proxy must be entitled "IRREVOCABLE PROXY," must state that it is irrevocable, must not otherwise be unlawful, and must be held by any of the following or by a nominee of any of the following:
  (1) A pledge or other person holding a security interest in the shares;
  (2) A person who has purchased or agreed to purchase the shares;
  (3) A creditor or creditors of the bank or trust company who extend or continue credit to the bank or trust company in consideration of the proxy, if the proxy states that it was given in consideration of such extension or continuation of credit, the amounts thereof, and the name of the person extending or continuing credit;
  (4) A person who has contracted to perform services as an officer of the bank or trust company, if a proxy is required by the contract of employment and if the proxy states that it was given in consideration of such contract of employment, the name of the employee, and the period of employment contracted for;
  (5) A person designated by or under an agreement under Code Section 7-1-438, relating to shareholders' agreements.
(h) Notwithstanding a provision in a proxy stating that it is irrevocable, the proxy becomes revocable after the pledge or security interest is redeemed, or the debt of the bank or trust company is paid, or the period of employment provided for in the contract of employment has terminated, or the agreement under Code Section 7-1-438, relating to shareholders' agreements, has terminated; and, in a case provided for in paragraph (3) or (4) of subsection (g) of this Code section, a proxy becomes revocable three years after the date of the proxy or at the end of the period, if any, specified therein, whichever period is less, unless the period of irrevocability is renewed from time to time by the execution of a new irrevocable proxy as provided in this Code section. This subsection does not affect the duration of a proxy under subsection (b) of this Code section.
(i) A proxy may be revoked, notwithstanding a provision making it irrevocable, by a purchaser of shares without knowledge of the existence of the provision unless the existence of the proxy and its irrevocability are noted conspicuously on the face or back of the certificate representing such shares.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 7, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 256,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2007.
