# § 7-1-651. Membership; shares

(a) The membership of the credit union shall consist of the initial subscribers and such other persons within the field of membership as may have subscribed to one share, which has been paid by a person or the credit union, together with the required entrance fee and complied with all other requirements contained in the bylaws. No subscriber or other member shall hold more than one share out of any class of shares. The bylaws may provide for separate classes of shares for borrowers and depositors and for the par value of each share for each class, but in no event shall the par value be less than $1.00.
(b) Societies, associations, partnerships, limited liability companies, and corporations composed of persons who are eligible for membership or headquartered within the field of membership may be admitted to membership in the same manner and under the same conditions as such persons.
(c) A person or corporation who leaves the field of membership may be permitted to retain his membership in the credit union at the discretion of the board of directors.
(d) Customers of a bank that have been acquired by a credit union as a result of a merger or purchase and where the bank will cease to exist, due to a voluntary or involuntary dissolution, shall become members of the credit union upon the effective date of the underlying transaction; provided, however, that nothing herein shall be deemed as permitting a public body to be a member of a credit union. As used in this subsection, the term "public body" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 45-8-1.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 474,§ 1-13, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 270,§ 21, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 57,§ 18, eff. 6/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 64,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 31,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2009.
