# § 7-1-1005. Renewal of licenses; expiration

(a) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this article, all licenses issued pursuant to this article shall expire on December 31 of each year, and application for renewal shall be made annually on or before December 1 of each year.
(b) Any licensee making proper application on or before December 1 for the renewal of a license for the following calendar year shall be permitted to continue to operate pending final approval or disapproval of the application if the application for the license is not acted upon prior to January 1. For purposes of this subsection, a "proper application" shall include a requirement that all documentation requesting a renewal has been completed, the requisite continuing education has been successfully obtained, and payment has been made of all outstanding fines and applicable fees required by this article.
(c) No investigation fee shall be payable in connection with the renewal application, but an annual license fee established by regulation of the department to defray the cost of supervision shall be paid with each renewal application, which fee shall not be refunded.
(d) Any person holding a license pursuant to this article who fails to file a proper application for a license renewal for the following license year on or before December 1 and who files an application after December 1 may be required to pay, in addition to the license fees, a fine in an amount to be established by regulations promulgated by the department.
(e) The minimum standards for license renewal for mortgage loan originators shall include:
  (1) The mortgage loan originator continues to meet the minimum standards for license issuance;
  (2) The mortgage loan originator has satisfied the annual continuing education requirements;
  (3) The mortgage loan originator has paid all required fees for renewal of the license; and
  (4) The mortgage loan originator is in compliance with any and all written orders issued by the department.
(f) A mortgage loan originator license shall become inactive in the event that the mortgage loan originator is no longer sponsored by a mortgage lender or mortgage broker that is licensed. A mortgage loan originator shall not act as a mortgage loan originator in this state while the license is inactive. A mortgage loan originator license shall remain in inactive status until the license expires pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, the licensee surrenders the license, the license is revoked or suspended, or the licensee obtains sponsorship.
(g) The department may adopt procedures for the reinstatement of expired licenses consistent with the standards established by the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 474,§ 1-24, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 270,§ 34, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 169,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 66,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 33, eff. 5/5/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 299, § 13, eff. 7/1/2001.
