# § 7-1-602. Applications for branch offices

(a) Application to establish a branch office shall be made to the department in such form as it may prescribe from time to time. The department shall exercise its discretion in its consideration of the application; but the department shall not approve the application until it has ascertained to its satisfaction that the public need and advantage will be promoted by the establishment of the proposed branch office, based upon the following factors:
  (1) Reasonable opportunity for the proposed branch office to generate a sufficient profit;
  (2) The character and fitness of the board of directors and management of the bank to command the confidence of the community and to warrant the belief that the business of the bank or trust company at the branch office will be honestly and efficiently conducted;
  (3) The adequacy of the capital structure of the bank or trust company, particularly in view of the anticipated business to be generated by the proposed branch office; and
  (4) The overall financial condition and safety and soundness of the applicant bank or trust company. Where the department by rule, regulation, or written policy has provided for expedited processing of applications or for notice procedures, it may abbreviate its review of these criteria.
(b) After receipt of a complete application, the department shall have 30 days within which to approve or disapprove such application.
(c) The department may approve an application contingent upon the satisfaction of additional conditions, including the submission of information such as the date of opening and the capital outlay for the branch office. If the approval of a federal regulatory agency is required with respect to the branch office, the department may at its option withhold its written approval or disapproval until such federal approval is granted or denied or may withdraw its approval if the federal agency fails to act or refuses to grant approval. If the department disapproves the branch office, it shall notify the applicant of its disapproval and state generally in writing the unfavorable factors influencing its decision. The decision of the department is final, except that it may be subject to judicial review as provided in Code Section 7-1-90.
(d) The department may provide by regulation that a bank which meets certain financial and managerial criteria may, in lieu of application, file a written notification with the department at a time to be specified in such regulation.
(e) All lawfully established banking locations existing on July 1, 1999, other than a bank's main office, shall be known and shall qualify as branch offices.
(f) In the event of merger or consolidation of two or more banks, pursuant to Parts 14 and 15 of this article, the surviving or resulting bank shall designate a main office and may retain and continue to operate any or all banking locations of each constituent bank as branch offices. In the event of the purchase of substantially all of the assets of a bank, subject to the review and approval by the commissioner of such transaction, the purchasing bank may retain and continue to operate any or all banking locations of the selling bank as branch offices.
(g) The department's approval may be revoked if conditions in the approval have not been satisfied or if other violations of law occur as a result of the branch office's opening or operation.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 492,§ 7, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 2-13, eff. 7/1/2016.
