# § 7-1-1017. Suspension or revocation of licenses or mortgage broker education approval; notice; judicial review; effect on preexisting contract

(a)
  (1) The department may suspend or revoke an original or renewal license or mortgage broker education approval on any ground on which it might refuse to issue an original license or approval or for a violation of any provision of this article or of Chapter 6A of this title or any rule or regulation issued under this article or under Chapter 6A of this title, including failure to provide fees on a timely basis, or for failure of the licensee to pay, within 30 days after it becomes final, a judgment recovered in any court within this state by a claimant or creditor in an action arising out of the licensee's business in this state as a mortgage loan originator, mortgage lender, or mortgage broker or for violation of a final order previously issued by the department.
  (2) Where an applicant or licensee has been found not in compliance with an order for child support as provided in Code Section 19-6-28.1 or 19-11-9.3, such action shall be sufficient grounds for refusal of a license or suspension of a license. In such actions, the hearing and appeal procedures provided for in those Code sections shall be the only such procedures required under this article. The department shall be permitted to share, without liability, information on its applications or other forms with appropriate state agencies to assist them in recovering child support when required by law.
  (3) Where an applicant or licensee has been certified by any entity of the federal government for nonpayment or default or breach of a repayment or service obligation under any federal educational loan, loan repayment, or service conditional scholarship program, such action shall not be grounds for refusal of a license or suspension of a license.
(b) Notice of the department's intention to enter an order denying an application for a license under this article or of an order suspending or revoking a license under this article shall be given to the applicant or licensee in writing, sent by email to the email address of record for the applicant or licensee, or registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery addressed to the principal place of business of such applicant or licensee. Within 20 days of the date of the notice of intention to enter an order of denial, suspension, or revocation under this article, the applicant or licensee may request in writing a hearing to contest the order. If a hearing is not requested in writing within 20 days of the date of such notice of intention, the department shall enter a final order regarding the denial, suspension, or revocation. If a person refuses to accept service of the notice or order by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery and the notice sent by email to the email address of record has not been delivered to the person, the notice or order shall be served by the commissioner or the commissioner's authorized representative under any other method of lawful service; and the person shall be personally liable to the commissioner for a sum equal to the actual costs incurred to serve the notice or order. This liability shall be paid upon notice and demand by the commissioner or the commissioner's representative and shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as other fees or fines administered by the commissioner. Any final order of the department denying, suspending, or revoking a license shall state the grounds upon which it is based and shall be effective on the date of issuance. The department shall promptly send a copy of such order by mail addressed to the principal place of business of such applicant or licensee and post a copy of such order on the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry. For purposes of this subsection, the term "email address of record" means the email address that the applicant or licensee has designated as their email address for regulatory contact on file with the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry.
(c) A licensee may, at the discretion of and with the consent of the department, agree to a voluntary suspension of its license for a period of time to be agreed upon by the parties. Such order of suspension shall be considered a final order and shall be forwarded to the licensee in the same manner as any other final order. Grounds for such a voluntary suspension shall be the same as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, and the licensee may waive its right to an administrative hearing before issuance of the suspension. With the consent of the department, a licensee may voluntarily surrender its license. A voluntary surrender of a license shall have the same effect as a revocation of said license. A voluntary surrender of a license shall be regarded as a final order of the department.
(d) A decision of the department denying a license application, original or renewal, shall be conclusive, except that it may be subject to judicial review under Code Section 7-1-90. A decision of the department suspending or revoking a license shall be subject to judicial review in the same manner as a decision of the department to take possession of the assets and business of a bank under Code Section 7-1-155.
(e) Except as otherwise provided by law, a revocation, suspension, or surrender of a license shall not impair or affect the obligation of a preexisting contract between the licensee and another person.
(f) Nothing in this article shall preclude a mortgage broker or mortgage lender whose license has been suspended or revoked from continuing to service mortgage loans pursuant to servicing contracts in existence at the time of the suspension or revocation for a period not to exceed six months after the date of the final order of the department suspending or revoking the license.
(g) Whenever a person subject to an order of the department fails to comply with the terms of such order which has been properly issued, the department upon notice of three days to such person may, through the Attorney General, petition the principal court for an order directing such person to obey the order of the department within the period of time fixed by the court. Upon the filing of such petition, the court shall allow a motion to show cause why such motion should not be granted. Whenever, after a hearing upon the merits or after failure of such person to appear when ordered, it shall appear that the order of the department was properly issued, the court shall grant the petition of the department.
(h) Whenever the department initiates an administrative action against a current licensee or an applicant, the department may pursue that action to its conclusion despite the fact that a licensee may withdraw its license or fail to renew it or an applicant may withdraw its application.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 474,§ 1-34, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 399,§ 2-4, eff. 6/30/2024.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 348,§ 44, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 270,§ 36, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 146,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 64,§ 34, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 169,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 66,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 256,§ 39, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 36, eff. 5/5/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 376, § 21, eff. 7/1/2003.
