# § 7-1-1003-2. Financial requirements for licensing and registration; bond requirements

(a) Each licensed mortgage broker shall provide the department with a bond. The bond for a mortgage broker shall be in the principal sum of $150,000.00 or such greater sum as the department may require as set forth by regulation based on an amount that reflects the dollar amount of loans originated, and the bond shall meet the other requirements of subsection (d) of this Code section.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, the department shall not license any mortgage lender unless the applicant provides the department with a bond. The bond for a mortgage lender shall be in the principal sum of $250,000.00 or such greater sum as the department may require as set forth by regulation based on an amount that reflects the dollar amount of loans originated, and which bond shall meet the other requirements of subsection (d) of this Code section.
(c) Each mortgage loan originator shall be covered by the surety bond of his or her sponsoring licensed mortgage broker or lender. In the event that the mortgage loan originator is an employee of a licensed mortgage broker or lender or under an exclusive written independent contractor agreement as described in paragraph (17) of Code Section 7-1-1001, the surety bond of such licensed mortgage broker or lender may be used in lieu of the mortgage loan originator's surety bond requirement.
(d) General bond requirements:
  (1) The bond requirements for mortgage loan originators, mortgage brokers, and mortgage lenders are continuous in nature and shall be maintained at all times as a condition of licensure;
  (2) The corporate surety bond shall be for a term and in a form satisfactory to the department, shall be issued by a bonding company or insurance company authorized to do business in this state and approved by the department, and shall run to the State of Georgia for the benefit of any person damaged by noncompliance of a licensee with this article, the "Georgia Residential Mortgage Act," or with any condition of such bond. Damages under the bond shall include moneys owed to the department for fees, fines, or penalties. Such bond shall be continuously maintained thereafter in full force. Such bond shall be conditioned upon the applicant or the licensee conducting his or her licensed business in conformity with this article and all applicable laws;
  (3) When an action is commenced on a licensee's bond, the department may require the filing of a new bond; and
  (4) Immediately upon recovery upon any action on the bond, the licensee shall file a new bond.
(e) Any person including the department who may be damaged by noncompliance of a licensee with any condition of a bond or this article, the "Georgia Residential Mortgage Act," may proceed on such bond against the principal or surety thereon, or both, to recover damages.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 474,§ 1-21, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 57,§ 24, eff. 12/31/2017.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 169,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 66,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 160,§ 31, eff. 5/5/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 517, § 11, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 376, 18, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 299,11, eff. 7/1/2001
