# § 7-1-732. Eligibility to operate domestic international banks; registration required; records; exemption from taxes and license fees

(a) Any bank, whether domiciled within this state or elsewhere and having total capital funds of $25 million or more, as reported to its chartering authority as of December 31 of each year, may establish and operate a domestic international banking facility in this state upon compliance with this article. Any bank having total capital funds of $25 million or less may establish such facility upon compliance with this article and upon further obtaining the approval of the department. The department shall grant such approval only after it has satisfied itself that the registrant is financially sound, is operating in substantial conformity with all applicable laws and regulations, and is, along with its principals, of good character and reputation.
(b) Prior to establishing a domestic international banking facility and annually thereafter for so long as the facility shall continue in this state, the bank shall register with the department on such forms as the department shall prescribe and pay a registration fee as determined by the department. Such registration shall include:
  (1) The name and main office address of the registrant;
  (2) The address at which the facility is to be located;
  (3) The names of the individuals responsible for administering the business affairs of the facility in this state;
  (4) The name and address of the chartering authority for the registrant;
  (5) A resolution from the board of directors or other governing body of the registrant authorizing the establishment of the facility;
  (6) A statement of the registrant that it has the legal capacity under the laws pursuant to which it is organized to establish the facility and that its chartering authority (and regulatory authority if different) interposes no objection to the establishment of such facility; and
  (7) Such other information as the department may require. Information required in paragraphs (5) and (6) of this subsection need not be resubmitted upon renewal of a registration. The facility shall promptly notify the department of any change in the management or location of the facility.
(c) The domestic international banking facility shall maintain records of its business activities separate from records of the domestic banking activities of its parent or head office.
(d) The domestic international banking facility shall not be subject to any tax or license fee in this state by virtue of its business location in this state or its business activities outside of this state.
