# § 7-1-200. Confirmation of account; distribution of dividends; final disposition of assets insufficient for distribution; cancellation of articles

(a) If the department has approved all depositors' claims, as proved by them pursuant to this chapter or if not proved as they appear upon the books or other records of the financial institution and if no exception has been filed to an account or to any item thereof within 30 days after the filing of such account by the department, the principal court shall confirm the account absolutely. If any funds are available for distribution, the department shall then declare and pay out of such funds a partial or a final dividend, according to the priorities established by law. If the department has rejected any deposit or claim or if any exception has been filed, the court shall confirm the account as to all other matters and claims. The department may then declare and pay out of the funds available for distribution, if any, a dividend, according to the priorities established by law. The dividend shall be calculated as if all deposits and other claims were valid and approved. The department, before paying any such dividend, shall set apart funds or assets sufficient to pay required distribution on any claim still being asserted which has been rejected or reduced in priority by the department or to which an exception has been filed if the amount and the priority claimed were sustained by the court. If any such claim shall be determined by the court to be valid, the department shall pay to the corporation or person entitled thereto the dividend which has been set apart in the manner provided by this Code section. If any such claim shall be determined by the court to be invalid, the dividend which has been set apart in the manner provided by this Code section shall be distributed in the order of the priorities established by law to those whose claims have been approved by the court; provided, however, that any final determination as to disputed claims may be appealed as provided by law and payments may be withheld pending the results of the appeal.
(b) The confirmation of any account after the adjudication of all claims therein which have been rejected or reduced in priority by the department or to which exceptions have been filed and of all other exceptions to such account shall be conclusive as to all matters therein. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, no claim of any depositor or other creditor shall be valid if not listed and approved in the first account which has been filed. The confirmation of the final account and distribution thereunder shall discharge the department, the commissioner, the deputy receiver, any other employee, and the legal counsel, as well as the surety for any of them, from all further civil liability for any act done in an official capacity with respect to the receivership.
(c) Upon confirmation of the final account, the department may impound the balance of the assets, including real property, remaining in its hands and shall not be obligated to sell such assets or actively to collect on the impounded assets. With regard to said assets, including real estate and including after-discovered assets, it shall, however, retain all of its powers to receive payment for them or, with leave of court, to adjust or compromise them. After its final accounting and discharge, the department shall have power to make further distribution to the creditors, depositors, and shareholders when, in its opinion, sufficient funds are realized to justify such distribution after deducting reasonable costs for collection, preservation, and distribution. If the department is of the opinion that the funds collected or probably to be collected will be insufficient to make a distribution practicable and that all interested claimants will not in the future have their claims satisfied, it shall, after deducting reasonable costs for collection and preservation, hold the remainder of such property subject to Article 5 of Chapter 12 of Title 44. Thereafter, the articles of incorporation or charter shall no longer be valid and the department shall notify the Secretary of State that the receivership has been concluded. The Secretary of State shall promptly cancel such articles or charter of record in that office.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
