# § 7-1-603. Authorized extensions; restrictions

(a) An approved banking location may have an extension, which is not a branch or main office, at which banking activities may occur. The extensions described in this Code section do not require approval but may have certain restrictions or required notifications.
(b) The following are extensions:
  (1) "Automated teller machine" means electronic equipment which performs routine banking transactions, including, but not limited to, the taking of deposits for the public at locations off premises of a bank's main or branch office under regulations prescribed by the commissioner. This term includes electronic equipment that utilizes, or has the capability to utilize, live video chat with offsite bank personnel who may assist with banking services, including, but not limited to, account initiation.
  (2) "Cash dispensing machine" means for the purposes of this part and as used in paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of Code Section 7-1-241 an automated or electronic terminal which dispenses cash or scrip redeemable for goods and services or for cash, goods, and services. Such machines may provide account information but may not initiate intrabank transactions other than those necessary and incidental to the dispensing of cash.
  (3) "Night depository" means a drop box where customers can make deposits or payments outside of normal banking hours.
  (4) "Point-of-sale terminal" means electronic equipment located in nonbank business outlets to record electronically bank transactions occurring as a result of the sale of goods or services. For purposes of this Code section, the terms "automated teller machine," "point-of-sale terminal," "cash dispensing machine," and "night depository" shall not include personal communication devices such as telephones, computer terminals, modems, and other similar devices which are not accessible to the general public but are intended for use by a single bank customer. It is not the intent of this Code section to limit the ability of banks or other entities to utilize personal communication devices. The department may by regulation further define "automated teller machine," "point-of-sale terminal," "cash dispensing machine," "night depository," and "personal communication device" consistent with the objectives set forth in Code Section 7-1-3.
(c) The following are restrictions on location of an extension:
  (1) Any federally insured bank may operate automated teller machines throughout the state. These machines may be operated individually by any bank or jointly on a cost-sharing basis by two or more banks;
  (2) Any bank may operate cash dispensing machines throughout the state. Access to and use of cash dispensing machines may be available to all banks in this state on an individual or a shared basis;
  (3) A night depository may be located anywhere in the state; and
  (4) A point-of-sale terminal may be located anywhere in the state.
(d) An extension not defined in subsection (b) of this Code section is permitted, provided that such extension is located within the boundary lines of a single contiguous area of property owned or leased by the bank and used as a banking location, or if it is within 200 yards of such banking location. Banking services may be performed at the extension. Written notification to the department is required for such extension.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 492,§ 8, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 7, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 2-14, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 376, § 7, eff. 7/1/2003.
