# § 7-1-115. Winding up voluntary dissolution proceedings

(a) The board of directors shall have full power to wind up and settle the affairs of a financial institution in voluntary dissolution proceedings.
(b) Within 30 days after the department's approval of voluntary liquidation and dissolution, the financial institution shall give notice of its dissolution:
  (1) By mail to each depositor and creditor (except those as to whom the liability of the financial institution has been assumed by another financial institution pursuant to the plan), including a statement of the amount shown by the books of the financial institution to be due to such depositor or creditor and a demand that any claim for a greater amount be filed with the financial institution before a specified date at least 60 days after the date of notice;
  (2) By mail to each lessee of a safe-deposit box and each customer for whom property is held in safe deposit (except those as to whom the liability of the financial institution has been assumed by another financial institution pursuant to the plan), including a demand that all property held in a safe-deposit box or held in safe deposit by the financial institution be withdrawn by the person entitled thereto before a specified date at least 60 days after the date of the notice;
  (3) By mail to each person interested in funds held in a fiduciary account or other representative capacity;
  (4) By a conspicuous posting at each office of the financial institution; and
  (5) By such publication as the department may prescribe.
(c) As soon as feasible after the department's approval of voluntary liquidation and dissolution, the financial institution shall resign all of its fiduciary appointments and take such action as may be necessary to settle its fiduciary accounts.
(d) Except where liabilities are to be assumed by another financial institution:
  (1) All claims of depositors and creditors shall be paid promptly after the date specified in the notice given under paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section, and unearned portions of rentals for safe-deposit boxes shall be rebated to the lessee thereof;
  (2) Safe-deposit boxes whose contents have not been removed after the date specified in the notice given under paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be opened under the supervision of the department and the contents placed in sealed packages which, together with unclaimed property held by the financial institution in safe deposit, shall be transmitted to the department to be held by it subject to Article 5 of Chapter 12 of Title 44, provided that the department while holding such property may take such actions as it deems appropriate to protect the interests of the owner, including reducing such property to cash;
  (3) After payment of amounts due to all known depositors and creditors, unclaimed amounts due to depositors and creditors shall be paid through the department and held by it subject to Article 5 of Chapter 12 of Title 44; and
  (4) Assets remaining after the performance of all obligations of the financial institution under this subsection and subsection (c) of this Code section shall be distributed to its shareholders according to their respective rights and preferences. Partial distributions to shareholders may be made prior to such time only if and to the extent approved by the department.
(e) During the course of dissolution proceedings, the financial institution shall make such reports as the department may require and shall continue to be subject to the provisions of this chapter concerning examinations and investigations of financial institutions. Furthermore, during the course of a voluntary dissolution, the financial institution with the written permission of the department may elect to use provisions of Article 14 of Chapter 2 of Title 14 that are not in conflict with this chapter.
(f) If, at any time during the course of dissolution proceedings, the department finds that the assets of the financial institution will not be sufficient to discharge its obligations, the department may then or at any time thereafter take possession of the business and property of the financial institution and complete the dissolution in accordance with this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 7, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 376, § 3, eff. 7/1/2003.
