# § 7-1-1003-6. Privileged or confidential nature of information; exception

(a) Except as otherwise provided in the federal Secure and Fair Enforcement for Mortgage Licensing Act of 2008, the requirements under any federal law or Georgia state law regarding the privacy or confidentiality of any information or material provided to the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry and any privilege arising under federal or state law, including the rules of any federal or state court, with respect to such information or material, shall continue to apply to such information or material after the information or material has been disclosed to the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry. Such information and material may be shared with all state and federal regulatory agencies or law enforcement authorities without the loss of privilege or the loss of confidentiality protection provided by federal or state law.
(b) Information or material that is subject to privilege or confidentiality under subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be subject to:
  (1) Disclosure under any federal or state law governing the disclosure to the public of information held by an officer or an agency of the federal government or the respective state; or
  (2) Subpoena or discovery, or admission into evidence, in any private civil action unless with respect to any privilege held by the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry regarding such information or material, the person to whom such information or material pertains waives, in whole or in part, in the discretion of such person that privilege.
(c) This Code section shall not apply with respect to the information or material relating to the employment history of, and publicly adjudicated disciplinary and enforcement actions against, licensees that are included in the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry for access by the public.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 7, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 169,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 66,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
