# § 7-1-652. Joint, minor, and trust shares and deposits; preferred capital base shares

(a) A share may be issued and deposits received jointly in the names of a member and a nonmember with right of survivorship, but no joint tenant shall be permitted to vote, obtain loans, or hold office unless he is within the field of membership and is a qualified member.
(b)
  (1) A minor shall be allowed to have deposits in a credit union in his own name, and the deposits made by the minor shall not be subject to the control of his parent, guardian, or trustee. A minor may have third-party payment accounts. A receipt or acquittance signed by such a minor depositor shall be a valid and sufficient release and discharge of such credit union for any payment of any deposit to such minor. In the transactions involving payments to third parties out of the minor's account, the payment of an order of the minor shall be a valid and sufficient release and discharge of the credit union for any payment of such funds from the minor's account. This subsection shall continue to include, without limitation:
    (A) Deposits in such credit unions by a minor with one or more adults or other minors, as party to and with the same effect as a multiple-party account under Article 8 of this chapter;
    (B) The rental to a minor by said credit unions of a safe-deposit box or other receptacle for the safe deposit of property from such minor (and the receipt of any such property), individually or jointly with one or more adults; and
    (C) The dealing with a minor by said credit unions with respect to such a deposit account, third-party payment account, or safe-deposit agreement without the consent of a parent or guardian and with the same effect as though the minor were an adult.
  (2) Any action of the minor with respect to such deposit account, third-party payment account, or safe-deposit agreement shall be binding on the minor with the same effect as though the minor were an adult.
(c) In addition to its regular shares, a credit union may offer to its members "preferred capital base" shares when permitted by its bylaws. Such shares may be held without limit, shall be subject to the following restrictions, and may entitle the holder to the following rights and preferences:
  (1) Such shares shall have no par value;
  (2) Such shares shall be redeemed only at a stated maturity of not less than one year or within ten days of such maturity;
  (3) Such shares shall be transferable on the books of the credit union so long as the acquiring person is a member of the credit union;
  (4) Such shares may have a preference on the payment of dividends and interest up to 2 percent over the dividend rate paid to members on regular shares and deposits or such higher rates as approved by the credit union members and the department. Any such preference shall be fixed at the time of issuance of the shares; and
  (5) Such shares shall be subordinate to claims of depositors and other creditors in the event of liquidation of the credit union but shall rank ahead of the claims of regular shares.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 376, § 8, eff. 7/1/2003.
