# § 7-1-628.4. Permissible interstate merger transactions

(a) A Georgia state bank may enter into an interstate merger transaction where the Georgia state bank is the resulting bank, and as a result the Georgia state bank may establish, maintain, and operate one or more branches in another state. The Georgia state bank must seek approval for the merger pursuant to the provisions in Part 14 of this article and must comply with federal law.
(b) An out-of-state bank may enter into an interstate merger transaction with a Georgia bank, and an out-of-state bank resulting from such transaction may maintain and operate branches in Georgia. The requirements of Code Section 7-1-628.5 shall be met by the resulting bank. In order to consummate such a merger with a resulting out-of-state state bank, a Georgia state bank shall comply with Code Sections 7-1-531 through 7-1-533 and 7-1-537, except that the format of the articles of merger submitted in accordance with Code Section 7-1-532 may be in conformity with the resulting bank's home state law if such law requires a format different from that specified by Code Section 7-1-532. A Georgia state bank shall comply with Code Section 7-1-534 if a national bank or a federal savings bank is to be the resulting bank.
(c) Any out-of-state bank which lawfully establishes a branch in this state or which subsequently becomes the owner of or controls interstate branches in Georgia, if such transaction is not covered by subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section, shall comply with the requirements in Code Section 7-1-628.5.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 748,§ 22, eff. 7/1/2022.
