# § 7-1-789. Minors' deposits, safe-deposit boxes, and third-party payment accounts; validity of releases

(a) A minor shall be allowed to have deposits in a savings and loan association in his own name, and the deposits made by the minor shall not be subject to the control of his parent, guardian, or trustee. A minor may have third-party payment accounts. A receipt or acquittance signed by such a minor depositor shall be a valid and sufficient release and discharge of such association for any payment of any deposit to such minor. In the transactions involving payments to third parties out of the minor's account, the payment of an order of the minor shall be a valid and sufficient release and discharge of the savings and loan association for any payment of such funds from the minor's account.
(b) Subsection (a) of this Code section shall continue to include, without limitation:
  (1) Deposits in such associations by a minor with one or more adults or other minors, as party to and with the same effect as a multiple-party account under Article 8 of this chapter;
  (2) The rental to a minor by said associations of a safe-deposit box or other receptacle for the safe deposit of property from such minor (and the receipt of any such property), individually or jointly with one or more adults; and
  (3) The dealing with a minor by said associations with respect to such a deposit account, third-party payment account, or safe-deposit agreement without the consent of a parent or guardian and with the same effect as though the minor were an adult. Any action of the minor with respect to such deposit account, third-party payment account, or safe-deposit agreement shall be binding on the minor with the same effect as though the minor were an adult.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 7-4, eff. 7/1/2016.
