# § 33-20F-2. Election to participate in Surprise Billing Consumer Protection Act; notices

(a) Notwithstanding any provision of law in Chapter 20E of this title, the "Surprise Billing Consumer Protection Act," a self-funded healthcare plan may elect on an annual basis to participate in and be bound by such Act.
(b) A self-funded healthcare plan that elects to participate in the Surprise Billing Consumer Protection Act shall provide notice to the Commissioner of its election decision on a form prescribed by the Commissioner. The completed form shall include an attestation that the self-funded healthcare plan has elected to participate in and be bound by the Surprise Billing Consumer Protection Act to the extent that insurers are similarly bound. Such form shall be posted on the Commissioner's website for use by self-funded healthcare plans choosing to opt in.
(c) A self-funded healthcare plan may elect to initiate its participation on either January 1 of any year or on the first day of the self-funded healthcare plan's plan year of any year.
(d) On its election form, the plan must indicate whether it chooses to affirmatively renew its election on an annual basis or whether it should be presumed to have renewed on an annual basis until the Commissioner receives advance notice from the plan that it is terminating its election as of either December 31 of a calendar year or the last day of its plan year. Notices under this subsection shall be submitted to the Commissioner at least 30 days in advance of the effective date of the election to initiate participation and 30 days in advance of the effective date of the termination of participation.
(e) Self-funded healthcare plans opting in shall develop processes to address employee notifications or other responsibilities under ERISA that may arise from electing to participate in the Surprise Billing Consumer Protection Act.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 36,§ 3, eff. 4/29/2021.
