# § 35-9-15. Appointment of law enforcement officer of United States or any state as officer of this state

(a) On request of the sheriff or the chief or director of a law enforcement agency of this state or of any political subdivision thereof, and with the consent of the employee concerned, a law enforcement officer of the United States or any of the several states may be appointed as a law enforcement officer of this state for the purpose of providing mutual assistance in the enforcement of the laws of this state or of the United States. A law enforcement officer who is appointed pursuant to this Code section shall be considered a law enforcement officer of the appointing agency and shall have the same powers, duties, privileges, and immunities as a law enforcement officer employed by the appointing agency.
(b) Any such appointment shall be in writing, signed by the sheriff or the chief or director of the appointing agency, and shall specify the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the employee so appointed. Such appointment shall be at the pleasure of the sheriff or the chief or director of the appointing law enforcement agency. The appointment shall terminate if the person appointed ceases to be employed by an agency of the United States or of the several states. A copy of the appointment shall be filed in the executive office of the appointing agency.
(c) In lieu of any other oath prescribed by the laws of this state, a law enforcement officer appointed pursuant to this Code section shall take an oath to support and defend the Constitution of this state and to execute well and faithfully the laws of this state during the term of such appointment.
(d) As used in this Code section, the term "law enforcement agency" includes, but is not limited to, any sheriff 's office, municipal police department, county police department, prosecuting attorney's office, or any agency of the state or a political subdivision of this state whose employees are authorized to enforce the laws of this state.
(e) The following laws shall not apply to law enforcement officers appointed pursuant to this Code section:
  (1) Code Section 45-2-1, relating to persons ineligible to hold civil office; and
  (2) Chapter 8 of this title, known as the "Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act."

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 35, eff. 5/1/2012.
