# § 47-11-71. Amount of retirement benefits; optional retirement benefits; manner in which persons not eligible for maximum benefits at retirement may become eligible

(a)
  (1) Any judge of the probate court or employee of the board who is approved for retirement benefits as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 47-11-70 prior to July 1, 1996, shall be paid a monthly sum equal to 5 percent of the judge's or employee's average monthly net earnings, as may be determined from reports of such earnings and subject to the limitations on such earnings as provided for in Code Section 47-11-40, for each year served by the judge or employee up to, but not exceeding, a total of 30 years, except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section. No time prior to December 22, 1953, or for which dues have not been paid in accordance with Code Section 47-11-40 shall be considered in determining the number of years of service of any such judge of the probate court for purposes of determining retirement pay and no time prior to January 1, 1990, or for which dues have not been paid in accordance with Code Section 47-11-40 shall be considered in determining the number of years of service of any such employee of the board for purposes of determining retirement pay.
  (2) Any judge of the probate court or employee of the board who is approved for retirement benefits as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 47-11-70 on or after July 1, 1996, shall be paid a monthly sum equal to 5 percent of the judge's or employee's final monthly net earnings, as may be determined from reports of such earnings and subject to the limitations on such earnings as provided for in subparagraph (G) of paragraph (5) of Code Section 47-11-40, for each year served by the judge or employee up to, but not exceeding, a total of 30 years. No time for which dues have not been paid in accordance with Code Section 47-11-40 shall be considered in determining the number of years of service.
(b)
  (1) In lieu of receiving the retirement benefits provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section, a judge of the probate court or employee of the board may elect in writing, on a form to be provided by the board at the time the judge or employee becomes eligible to receive retirement benefits, to receive a monthly retirement benefit payable up to the date of the death of the designated survivor, which benefit shall be based on the judge's or employee's age at retirement and the age of the judge's or employee's designated survivor at that time and shall be computed so as to be actuarially equivalent to the total retirement payment which would have been paid to the judge or employee under subsection (a) of this Code section. A member who is unmarried at the time of such election may designate a survivor at the time of making such election. If a member is married at the time of such election, his or her spouse shall be the designated survivor unless another person is so designated with the written agreement of the spouse. In any event, the designated survivor shall be a person with whom the member has a familial relationship through blood, marriage, or adoption. Such actuarial equivalent shall be computed using an interest rate and current mortality table adopted by the board. The spouse designated at the time of the judge's or employee's retirement shall be the only spouse who may draw these benefits.
  (2) If a member elects the option provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection, then, after the approval of the application for retirement, the following provisions apply:
    (A) If the member's designated survivor shall predecease the member, the member may, in writing on forms prescribed by the board and subject to approval by the board, revoke such option and thereafter receive during the member's lifetime a monthly retirement benefit commencing on the date on which the board approves such revocation, but not for any period prior to such approval, equal to the maximum monthly benefit which would have been payable to him had such option not been exercised;
    (B) If there is entered a final judgment of complete divorce between the member and the member's spouse who is the designated survivor, the member may, in writing on forms prescribed by the board and subject to approval by the board, revoke such option and thereafter receive during the member's lifetime a monthly retirement benefit commencing on the date on which the board approves such revocation, but not for any period prior to such approval, equal to the maximum monthly benefit which would have been payable had such option not been exercised; and
    (C) If, following the death of the member's spouse or the entry of a final judgment of divorce between the member and the member's spouse who is the designated survivor, the member remarries, the member may, in writing on forms prescribed by the board and subject to approval by the board, elect such option with respect to the member's new spouse. The joint and survivor benefit shall be determined as of the date of the election. No such election shall be made until the expiration of one year after the date of remarriage or until a child of the remarried couple is born, whichever is earlier.
(c) Any provision of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, any judge of the probate court, employee of the board, and any secretary-treasurer of the fund who has served for a total of 30 years as judge of the probate court, employee of the board, or secretary-treasurer, or a combination of such service, and who has contributed all dues owed to the fund as provided in this chapter but who is not eligible upon retirement to receive the maximum retirement benefits provided for in this chapter shall be entitled to continue to contribute dues to the fund or, in the case of the secretary-treasurer, to continue to receive credit during such period of time as the judge, employee, or secretary-treasurer shall continue to serve as a judge of the probate court, employee of the board, or secretary-treasurer beyond 30 years of service. The average monthly net earnings of any such judge of the probate court, employee of the board, or secretary-treasurer retiring prior to July 1, 1996, shall be added to the total monthly net earnings of such judge of the probate court, employee of the board, or secretary-treasurer during the 30 year period of service. The sum of these two amounts shall then be divided by 360, and the result of such division shall then be used as the average monthly net earnings upon which retirement benefits shall be calculated; provided, however, such average monthly net earnings shall not exceed the limitations specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 47-11-21 and in Code Section 47-11-40.
(d) The calculation of benefits under this Code section shall apply to persons who were receiving benefits pursuant to the provisions of this chapter prior to July 1, 1988, as well as to persons who become eligible to receive benefits on or after that date. Effective July 1, 1988, the monthly benefit of each person who was receiving a benefit prior to that date shall be increased in the amount necessary to comply with the requirements of this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 739,§ 1, eff. effective on 7/1/2022, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law".
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 427,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 503,§ 3, eff. effective on July 1, 2014, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law"; otherwise, this Act shall not become effective and shall be automatically repealed in its entirety on July 1, 2014, as required by subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-50.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 521,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
