# § 47-11-21. Creation of office of secretary-treasurer; credit for service rendered; retirement benefits; surety bonds; reports and accounting

(a)
  (1) There is created the office of secretary-treasurer of the board. The secretary-treasurer shall be elected and appointed by the board and shall serve at the pleasure of the board. His compensation and duties may be fixed by the board.
  (2) The board or the secretary-treasurer with the approval of the board may employ additional personnel to assist the board or secretary-treasurer in carrying out duties provided in this chapter. The compensation and duties of any such personnel shall be fixed by the board.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter to the contrary, in addition to such salary, the secretary-treasurer shall receive credit for a sum of:
  (1) Six hundred dollars per annum for time served after March 21, 1958, until July 1, 1979;
  (2) Seven hundred fifty dollars per annum for time served after July 1, 1979, through December 31, 1992; and
  (3) One thousand two hundred fifty dollars for time served in any calendar year after 1992 as dues in the retirement system.
(b.1) The secretary-treasurer shall be paid retirement benefits upon retiring as secretary-treasurer as provided in Article 5 of this chapter for a judge of the probate court retiring with the highest benefit allowed by such article and shall be entitled to any retirement option allowed by such article.
(c) The board shall have authority to require the secretary-treasurer to give a good and sufficient surety bond in an amount to be determined by the board. The bond shall be payable to the board and shall be conditioned upon the proper and faithful performance of the duties of the secretary-treasurer. The secretary-treasurer shall be required to make quarterly reports to the board, which reports shall show all receipts and disbursements in such form and in such manner as the board may require. He shall likewise be required quarterly to make a full account of all moneys or property coming into his hands at any time.
