# § 50-13A-16. [Repealed Effective 7/1/2026] Small claims division established; jurisdiction; representation; hearings; finality of decisions

(a) There is hereby established a small claims division of the tribunal.
(b) Judges of the tribunal shall sit as the judges of the small claims division.
(c) Within 90 days of filing a petition pursuant to Code Section 50-13A-9, a taxpayer may elect to have the small claims division have jurisdiction over any proceeding with respect to which the amount of tax and penalties in controversy, exclusive of interest, is less than a threshold amount determined by the rules of the tribunal. A taxpayer may not revoke such election to proceed in the small claims division after this 90 day period. For good cause, the tribunal judge may, on his or her own motion or on the motion of a party to the case, remove a case from the small claims division.
(d) In proceedings before the small claims division of the tribunal, accountants and other tax return preparers designated by the taxpayer shall be permitted to accompany and appear with the taxpayer in order to provide factual information regarding positions taken on tax returns of the taxpayer. An accountant or tax return preparer accompanying and appearing with a taxpayer for this purpose shall not be deemed to be acting as an advocate of the taxpayer or representing the taxpayer before the tribunal.
(e) At any time prior to entry of judgment, a taxpayer may dismiss a proceeding in the small claims division by notifying the clerk of the tribunal in writing. Such dismissal shall be without prejudice.
(f) Hearings in the small claims division shall be conducted in a manner consistent with proceedings before magistrate courts, as specified in Article 3 of Chapter 10 of Title 15. The tribunal judge may receive such evidence as the judge deems appropriate for determination of the case. Testimony shall be given under oath or affirmation.
(g) A judgment of the small claims division shall be conclusive upon all parties and may not be appealed. A judgment of the small claims division shall not be considered or cited as precedent in any other case, hearing, or proceeding.

## History

Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 601,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2026.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 50, eff. 2/24/2013.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 609,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2012, and applicable to all proceedings commenced on or after 1/1/2013.
