# § 50-13A-18. [Repealed Effective 7/1/2026] Service; filing

(a) An initial petition shall be served by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery and any other pleading, motion, response, statement, or document permitted or required to be served shall be served by first-class mail or hand delivery.
(b) Any pleading, motion, response, statement, or document required by law, rule, or regulation to be received by or filed with the tribunal pursuant to the requirements of this chapter shall be deemed to be received by or filed with the tribunal on the earlier of:
  (1) The date such pleading, motion, response, statement, or document is actually received by the tribunal;
  (2) The official postmark date such pleading, motion, response, statement, or document was mailed, properly addressed with postage prepaid, by registered or certified mail; or
  (3) The date on which such pleading, motion, response, statement, or document was delivered to a commercial delivery company for statutory overnight delivery as provided in Code Section 9-10-12 as evidenced by the receipt provided by the commercial delivery company.
(c) Mailing or delivery to the address of the taxpayer given on the taxpayer's petition or to the address of the taxpayer's representative of record, if any, or to the usual place of business of the commissioner, and, when applicable, of the clerk of superior court or collecting official who is made a party to the action shall constitute personal service on such party. The chief tribunal judge may by rule prescribe that notice by other means shall constitute personal service and may in a particular case order that notice be given to additional persons or order that notice be given by other means.

## History

Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 601,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2026.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 609,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2012, and applicable to all proceedings commenced on or after 1/1/2013.
