# § 50-13A-5. [Repealed Effective 7/1/2026] Composition of tribunal; vacancies and other administrative matters

(a) The tribunal shall consist of at least one full-time administrative law judge. If the tribunal has more than one judge, each shall exercise the powers of the tribunal in all matters, causes, or proceedings assigned to him or her.
(b) Initial tribunal judges shall be appointed by the Governor. If, initially, the tribunal has only one judge, that individual shall be appointed for a term of four years and shall be the chief tribunal judge; provided, however, that if, initially, the tribunal has more than one judge, then one judge shall be appointed for an initial term of four years and one judge shall be appointed as chief tribunal judge for an initial term of six years to ensure that the judges' initial terms do not expire in the same year. Once appointed, each initial tribunal judge shall continue in office until his or her term expires and a successor has been appointed and confirmed. Initial tribunal judges may be reappointed for successive terms, provided that each successive term shall be for four years.
(c) After initial appointments are made pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, all appointments and reappointments of the chief tribunal judge and other tribunal judges shall be made by the Governor, with the consent of the Senate, for terms of four years. Once appointed and confirmed, each such tribunal judge shall continue in office until his or her term expires and a successor has been appointed and confirmed. A tribunal judge may be reappointed for successive terms.
(d) Each tribunal judge shall receive an annual salary no less than that of the chief administrative law judge of the Office of State Administrative Hearings; provided, however, that the tribunal judge's total salary shall not be reduced during such judge's term of appointment.
(e) A vacancy in the tribunal occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as an original appointment.
(f) The executive of the tribunal shall be the chief tribunal judge who shall have sole charge of the administration of the tribunal, including, but not limited to, the preparation of a budget and matters involving employment and expenditures as set forth in Code Section 50-13A-8, and shall apportion among the judges all causes, matters, and proceedings coming before the tribunal.
(g) With the consent of the Senate, the Governor may remove a tribunal judge, after notice and an opportunity to be heard, for neglect of duty, inability to perform duties, malfeasance in office, or other good cause.
(h) Whenever the tribunal trial docket or business becomes congested or any tribunal judge is absent, is disqualified, or for any other reason is unable to perform his or her duties as tribunal judge, and it appears to the Governor that the services of an additional tribunal judge or judges should be provided, the Governor may, without obtaining the approval of the Senate, appoint a judge, or judges, pro tempore of the tribunal. Any person appointed judge pro tempore of the tribunal shall have the qualifications set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 50-13A-6 and shall serve for a period not to exceed 12 months.
(i) A tribunal judge may disqualify himself or herself on his or her own motion in any matter and may be disqualified for any cause listed in Code Section 15-1-8.

## History

Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 601,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2026.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 609,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2012, and applicable to all proceedings commenced on or after 1/1/2013.
