# § 50-13A-8. [Repealed Effective 7/1/2026] Support personnel for tribunal

(a) The chief tribunal judge shall appoint a clerk of the tribunal, a court reporter, and such other employees, including staff attorneys and clerical assistants, and make such other expenditures, including expenditures for library, publications, and equipment, as are reasonably necessary to permit the tribunal to execute its functions efficiently; provided, however, that the chief tribunal judge shall endeavor to utilize staff employed by the Office of State Administrative Hearings and shall consult with the chief state administrative law judge so as to best utilize staff positions to best serve both the tribunal and the Office of State Administrative Hearings.
(b) A tribunal court reporter shall be subject to the provisions of Code Sections 15-14-20 through 15-14-36 as if appointed by a judge of a superior court, except when such provisions are in conflict with this chapter.
(c) No employee of the tribunal shall act as attorney, representative, or accountant for others in a matter involving any tax imposed or levied by this state or county or municipality of this state.
(d) In addition to contracting the services of the tribunal court reporter, the chief tribunal judge may contract the reporting of tribunal proceedings and, in the contract, fix the terms and conditions under which transcripts shall be supplied by the contractor to the tribunal and to other persons and agencies.

## History

Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 601,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2026.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 609,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2012, and applicable to all proceedings commenced on or after 1/1/2013.
