# § 50-13A-14. [Repealed Effective 7/1/2026] Conduct of trials; evidence; recordings

(a) Trials in proceedings before the tribunal shall be de novo and without a jury. All questions of law decided by the tribunal, including interpretations of constitutional, statutory, and regulatory provisions, shall be made without any deference to any determination or interpretation, whether written or unwritten, that may have been made on the matter by the Department of Revenue, except such requirement shall have no effect on the judicial standard of deference accorded to rules promulgated pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Hearings shall be open to the public, but on motion of any party, if such party shows good cause to protect certain information from being disclosed to the public, the tribunal judge may issue a protective order or an order closing part or all of a hearing to the public.
(b) The tribunal shall take evidence, and the tribunal judges shall conduct hearings and issue final judgments and interlocutory orders.
(c) The tribunal judges shall apply the rules of evidence as applied in the trial of civil nonjury cases in the superior courts; provided, however, that for hearings conducted in the small claims division, the tribunal judge may, when necessary to ascertain facts not reasonably susceptible of proof under such rules, consider evidence not otherwise admissible thereunder if it is of a type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their affairs.
(d) Testimony before a tribunal judge shall be given only on oath or affirmation.
(e) The petition and other pleadings in the proceeding shall be deemed to conform to the proof presented at the hearing, unless a party satisfies the tribunal judge that presentation of the evidence would unfairly prejudice the party in maintaining its position on the merits or unless deeming the taxpayer's petition to conform to the proof would confer jurisdiction on the tribunal over a matter that would not otherwise come within the tribunal's jurisdiction.
(f) Except for hearings conducted in the small claims division of the tribunal as provided in Code Section 50-13A-16, all hearings before the tribunal shall be recorded by means acceptable for use in courts of this state.

## History

Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 601,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2026.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 41,§ 4, eff. 4/29/2021.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 609,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2012, and applicable to all proceedings commenced on or after 1/1/2013.
