# § 14-2-1133. Inapplicability of requirements of this article unless specifically provided by corporate bylaw; repeal of bylaw; adoption of other provisions

(a) The requirements of this part shall not apply to business combinations with interested shareholders unless the bylaws of the resident domestic corporation specifically provide that all of such requirements are applicable to the resident domestic corporation. Such a bylaw may be adopted at any time in the manner provided in this chapter and shall apply to any business combination with an interested shareholder after the date of the bylaw's adoption, provided that such bylaw shall not apply to restrict a business combination between the corporation and an interested shareholder of the resident domestic corporation if the interested shareholder became such prior to the effective date of the bylaw. Such a bylaw shall be irrevocable except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section. Neither the adoption nor the failure to adopt such a bylaw shall constitute grounds for any cause of action against any of the directors of the resident domestic corporation.
(b) Any bylaw adopted as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section may only be repealed by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the continuing directors and a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by voting shares of the resident domestic corporation, other than shares beneficially owned by an interested shareholder, in addition to any other vote required by the articles of incorporation or bylaws to amend the bylaws. Any action to repeal any bylaw in accordance with this subsection shall not be effective until 18 months after the shareholder vote to effect such repeal and shall not apply to any business combination between such resident domestic corporation and any person who became an interested shareholder of such resident domestic corporation on or prior to such repeal. Once the bylaw has been repealed in accordance with this subsection, the resident domestic corporation shall not thereafter be entitled to adopt the bylaw in accordance with subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Nothing contained in this part shall be deemed to limit in any manner a resident domestic corporation's right to include in its articles of incorporation or bylaws any provision regarding the approval of business combinations which would not otherwise be prohibited by this chapter.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be construed to alter in any manner the rights of a resident domestic corporation to adopt a bylaw pursuant to Code Section 14-2-1113. The requirements of any bylaw adopted under this part will be in addition to the requirements of any bylaw adopted pursuant to Part 2 of this article.
(e) Nothing contained in Part 2 of this article shall be construed to alter in any manner the rights of a resident domestic corporation to adopt a bylaw pursuant to this Code section. The requirements of any bylaw adopted under Part 2 of this article will be in addition to the requirements of any bylaw adopted pursuant to this part.
