# § 14-2-1620. Financial statements for shareholders

(a) Not later than four months after the close of each fiscal year and in any case prior to the annual meeting of shareholders, each corporation shall prepare (1) a balance sheet showing in reasonable detail the financial condition of the corporation as of the close of its fiscal year and (2) a profit and loss statement showing the results of its operation during its fiscal year. Upon request in writing or by electronic transmission, the corporation promptly shall mail to any shareholder of record a copy of the most recent balance sheet and profit and loss statement. If prepared for other purposes, the corporation shall also furnish upon request in writing or by electronic transmission a statement of sources and applications of funds and a statement of changes in shareholders' equity for the fiscal year. If financial statements are prepared by the corporation on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles, the annual financial statements must also be prepared and disclose that they are prepared on that basis. If financial statements are prepared otherwise than on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles, they must so disclose and must be prepared on the same basis as other reports or statements prepared by the corporation for the use of others.
(b) If the annual financial statements are reported upon by a public accountant, his report must accompany them. If not, the statements must be accompanied by a statement of the president or the person responsible for the corporation's accounting records:
  (1) Stating his reasonable belief whether the statements were prepared on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles and, if not, describing the basis of preparation; and
  (2) Describing any respects in which the statements were not prepared on a basis of accounting consistent with the statements prepared for the preceding year.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 21, eff. 7/1/2004.
