# § 14-2-912. Share transfer after first refusal by corporation

(a) A person desiring to transfer shares of a statutory close corporation subject to the transfer prohibition of Code Section 14-2-911 must first offer them to the corporation by obtaining an offer to purchase the shares for cash from a third person who is eligible to purchase the shares under subsection (b) of this Code section. The offer by the third person must be in writing and state the offeror's name and address, the number and class (or series) of shares offered, the offering price per share, and the other terms of the offer.
(b) A third person is eligible to purchase the shares if:
  (1) He is eligible to become a qualified shareholder under any federal or state tax statute the corporation has adopted and he agrees in writing not to terminate his qualification without the approval of the remaining shareholders; and
  (2) His purchase of the shares will not impose a personal holding company tax or similar federal or state penalty tax on the corporation.
(c) The person desiring to transfer shares shall deliver the offer to the corporation and by doing so offers to sell the shares to the corporation on the terms of the offer. Within 20 days after the corporation receives the offer, the corporation shall call a special shareholders' meeting, to be held not more than 40 days after the call, to decide whether the corporation should purchase all (but not less than all) of the offered shares. The offer must be approved by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of votes entitled to be cast at the meeting, excluding votes in respect of the shares covered by the offer.
(d) The corporation must deliver to the offering shareholder written notice of acceptance within 75 days after receiving the offer or the offer is rejected. If the corporation makes a counteroffer, the shareholder must deliver to the corporation written notice of acceptance within 15 days after receiving the counteroffer or the counteroffer is rejected. If the corporation accepts the original offer or the shareholder accepts the corporation's counteroffer, the shareholder shall deliver to the corporation duly endorsed certificates for the shares, or instruct the corporation in writing to transfer the shares if uncertificated, within 20 days after the effective date of the notice of acceptance. The corporation may specifically enforce the shareholder's delivery or instruction obligation under this subsection.
(e) A corporation accepting an offer to purchase the shares under this Code section may allocate some or all of the shares pro rata to those of its shareholders who desire to purchase the shares unless all of the shareholders who desire to purchase approve a different allocation to the shareholders or to other persons. If the corporation has more than one class (or series) of shares, however, the remaining holders of the class (or series) of shares being purchased are entitled to a first option to purchase the shares not purchased by the corporation in proportion to their shareholdings or in some other proportion agreed to by all the shareholders participating in the purchase.
(f) If an offer to purchase shares under this Code section is rejected, the offering shareholder, for a period of 120 days after the corporation received his offer, is entitled to transfer to the third-person offeror all (but not less than all) of the offered shares in accordance with the terms of his offer to the corporation.
