# § 14-2-1020. Amendment by board of directors or shareholders

(a) A corporation's board of directors may amend or repeal the corporation's bylaws or adopt new bylaws unless:
  (1) The articles of incorporation or this chapter reserve this power exclusively to the shareholders in whole or in part; or
  (2) The shareholders in amending or repealing a particular bylaw provide expressly that the board of directors may not amend or repeal that bylaw.
(b) A corporation's shareholders may amend or repeal the corporation's bylaws or adopt new bylaws even though the bylaws may also be amended or repealed by its board of directors; provided, however, that unless the articles of incorporation provide otherwise, the shareholders may not amend (but may repeal) a bylaw adopted by the board of directors pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 14-2-728 or adopt a bylaw changing the plurality standard for the election of directors set forth in such subsection.
(c) A bylaw establishing staggered terms for directors may only be adopted, amended, or repealed by the shareholders.
(d) A bylaw limiting the authority of the board of directors may only be adopted pursuant to an agreement meeting the requirements of Code Section 14-2-732.
(e) Bylaws adopted by the incorporators or board of directors prior to the issuance of any of the corporation's shares may be amended by the incorporators or the board of directors prior to the issuance of any of the corporation's shares.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 452,§ 5, eff. 5/6/2008.
