# § 14-2-914. Compulsory purchase of shares after death of shareholder

(a) This Code section and Code Sections 14-2-915 through 14-2-917 apply to a statutory close corporation only if so provided in its articles of incorporation. If these Code sections apply, the executor or administrator of the estate of a deceased shareholder may require the corporation to purchase or cause to be purchased all (but not less than all) of the decedent's shares or to be dissolved.
(b) The provisions of Code Sections 14-2-915 through 14-2-917 may be modified only if the modification is set forth or referred to in the articles of incorporation.
(c) An amendment to the articles of incorporation to provide for application of Code Sections 14-2-915 through 14-2-917, or to modify or delete the provisions of these Code sections, must be approved by the holders of at least two-thirds of the votes of each class or series of shares of the statutory close corporation, voting as separate voting groups, whether or not otherwise entitled to vote on amendments. If the corporation has no shareholders when the amendment is proposed, it must be approved by at least two-thirds of the subscribers for shares, if any, or, if none, by all of the incorporators.
(d) A shareholder who votes against an amendment to modify or delete the provisions of Code Sections 14-2-915 through 14-2-917 is entitled to dissenters' rights under Article 13 of this chapter if the amendment upon adoption terminates or substantially alters his existing rights under these Code sections to have his shares purchased.
(e) A shareholder may waive his and his estate's rights under Code Sections 14-2-915 through 14-2-917 by a signed writing.
(f) Code Sections 14-2-915 through 14-2-917 do not prohibit any other agreement providing for the purchase of shares upon a shareholder's death, nor do they prevent a shareholder from enforcing any remedy he has independently of these Code sections.
