# § 14-2-1109.3. Conversion to foreign limited liability company, foreign limited partnership, or foreign corporation; requirements

(a) A corporation may elect to become a foreign limited liability company, a foreign limited partnership, or a foreign corporation, if such a conversion is permitted by the law of the state or jurisdiction under whose law the resulting entity would be formed.
(b) To effect a conversion under this Code section, the corporation must adopt a plan of conversion that sets forth the manner and basis of converting the shares of the corporation into interests, shares, obligations, or other securities, as the case may be, of the resulting entity. The plan of conversion may set forth other provisions relating to the conversion.
(c) For the plan of conversion to be adopted:
  (1) The board of directors shall submit the plan of conversion for approval by the shareholders and shall recommend the plan of conversion to the shareholders in the same manner and subject to the same exceptions as provided in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 14-2-1103, and may condition its submission and provide notice to each shareholder entitled to vote in the same manner as provided in subsections (c) and (d) of Code Section 14-2-1103; and
  (2) All of the shareholders must approve the plan of conversion.
(d) The plan of conversion may set forth other provisions relating to the conversion, including a provision that the plan may be amended prior to the time that the conversion has become effective, but subsequent to approval of the plan by shareholders the plan may not be amended to change in any respect not expressly authorized by such shareholders in connection with the approval of the plan:
  (1) The amount or kind of interests, shares or other securities, obligations, or rights to acquire interests, shares or other securities to be received under the plan by the shareholders if the change would adversely affect such shareholders; or
  (2) Any of the other terms or conditions of the plan if the change would adversely affect such shareholders in any material respect; and in the event that the plan of conversion is amended after a certificate of conversion has been filed with the Secretary of State but before the conversion has become effective, a certificate of amendment of conversion executed by an officer or other duly authorized representative shall be delivered to the Secretary of State for filing prior to the effectiveness of the conversion.
(e) Any of the terms of the plan of conversion may be made dependent upon facts ascertainable outside of the plan of conversion, provided that the manner in which such facts shall operate upon the terms of the conversion is clearly and expressly set forth in the plan of conversion. As used in this subsection, the term "facts" includes, but is not limited to, the occurrence of any event, including a determination or action by any person or body, including the corporation.
(f) After a conversion is authorized, unless the plan of conversion provides otherwise, and at any time before the conversion has become effective, the planned conversion may be abandoned, subject to any contractual rights, without further shareholder action, in accordance with the procedure set forth in the plan of conversion or, if none is set forth, in the manner determined by the board of directors.
(g) The conversion shall be effected as provided in, and shall have the effects provided by, the law of the state or jurisdiction under whose law the resulting entity is formed and by the plan of conversion, to the extent not inconsistent with such law.
(h) If the resulting entity is required to obtain a certificate of authority to transact business in this state by the provisions of this title governing foreign corporations, foreign limited partnerships, or foreign limited liability companies, it shall do so pursuant to Code Section 14-2-1501, 14-9-902, or 14-11-705.
(i) After a plan of conversion is approved by the shareholders, the corporation shall deliver to the Secretary of State for filing a certificate of conversion setting forth:
  (1) The name of the corporation;
  (2) The name and jurisdiction of the entity to which the corporation shall be converted;
  (3) The effective date, or the effective date and time, of such conversion if later than the date and time the certificate of conversion is filed;
  (4) A statement that the plan of conversion has been adopted as required by subsection (c) of this Code section;
  (5) A statement that the authority of its registered agent to accept service on its behalf is revoked as of the effective time of such conversion and that the Secretary of State is irrevocably appointed as the agent for service of process on the resulting entity in any proceeding to enforce an obligation of the corporation arising prior to the effective time of such conversion;
  (6) A mailing address to which a copy of any process served on the Secretary of State under paragraph (5) of this subsection may be mailed as provided in subsection (j) of this Code section; and
  (7) A statement that the Secretary of State shall be notified of any change in the resulting entity's mailing address.
(j) Upon the conversion's taking effect, the resulting entity is deemed to appoint the Secretary of State as its agent for service of process in a proceeding to enforce any of its obligations arising prior to the effective time of such conversion. Any party that serves process upon the Secretary of State in accordance with this subsection also shall mail a copy of the process to the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or the secretary of the resulting entity, or a person holding a comparable position, at the mailing address provided in subsection (i) of this Code section.
(k) A converting corporation pursuant to this Code section may file a copy of its certificate of conversion, certified by the Secretary of State, in the office of the clerk of the superior court of the county where any real property owned by such corporation is located and record such certified copy of the certificate of conversion in the books kept by such clerk for recordation of deeds in such county with the corporation indexed as the grantor and the foreign entity indexed as the grantee. No real estate transfer tax otherwise required by Code Section 48-6-1 shall be due with respect to recordation of such certificate of conversion.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 242,§ 2, eff. 5/24/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 817,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2006.
