# § 14-2-141. Notice

(a) Notice under this chapter shall be in writing unless oral notice is reasonable under the circumstances.
(b) Notice may be communicated in person; by telephone, electronic transmission, or other form of wire or wireless communication; or by mail or private carrier. If these forms of personal notice are impracticable, notice may be communicated by a newspaper of general circulation in the area where published or by radio, television, or other form of public broadcast communication. Unless otherwise provided in the articles of incorporation, bylaws, or this chapter, notice by electronic transmission shall be deemed to be notice in writing for purposes of this chapter.
(c) Written notice by a domestic or foreign corporation to its shareholders, if in a comprehensible form, is effective when mailed, if mailed with first-class postage prepaid and correctly addressed to the shareholder's address shown in the corporation's current record of shareholders. If at the record date fixed to determine the shareholders entitled to receive a notice the corporation has a class or series of shares listed on a national securities exchange or has more than 500 shareholders of record, it may utilize a class of mail other than first class; provided, however, that if the notice is of a meeting of shareholders, the notice is mailed, with adequate postage prepaid, not less than 30 days before the date of the meeting.
(d) Written notice to a domestic or foreign corporation (authorized to transact business in this state) may be addressed to its registered agent at its registered office or to the corporation or its secretary at its principal office shown in its most recent annual registration or, in the case of a foreign corporation that has not yet delivered an annual registration, in its application for a certificate of authority.
(e) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, written notice, if in a comprehensible form, is effective at the earliest of the following:
  (1) When received, or when delivered, properly addressed, to the addressee's last known principal place of business or residence;
  (2) Five days after its deposit in the mail, as evidenced by the postmark, or such longer period as shall be provided in the articles of incorporation or bylaws, if mailed with first-class postage prepaid and correctly addressed; or
  (3) On the date shown on the return receipt, if sent by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, and the receipt is signed by or on behalf of the addressee.
(f) Oral notice is effective when communicated if communicated in a comprehensible manner.
(g) In calculating time periods for notice under this chapter, when a period of time measured in days, weeks, months, years, or other measurement of time is prescribed for the exercise of any privilege or the discharge of any duty, the first day shall not be counted but the last day shall be counted.
(h) Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively under this chapter:
  (1) Any notice by a corporation under any provision of this chapter, the articles of incorporation, or the bylaws to record or beneficial holders of its shares shall be effective if given by a single written notice to two or more such holders who share an address if consented to by those holders. Any such consent shall be revocable by a holder by written notice to the corporation. Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, any such consent shall be in writing and signed by each record or beneficial holder with respect to which such single written notice is to be effective.
  (2) Any record or beneficial holder of shares of any class or series which are either listed on a national securities exchange or held of record by more than 500 shareholders who fails to object in writing to the corporation, within 60 days of having been given written notice by the corporation of its intention to send the single notice permitted under paragraph (1) of this subsection to such holders, shall be deemed to have consented to receiving such single written notice.
(i) If this chapter prescribes notice requirements for particular circumstances, those requirements govern. If articles of incorporation or bylaws prescribe notice requirements, not inconsistent with this Code section or other provisions of this chapter, those requirements govern.
(j)
  (1) Without limiting the manner by which notice otherwise may be given effectively to shareholders, any notice to shareholders given by the corporation under any provision of this chapter, the articles of incorporation, or the bylaws shall be effective if given by a form of electronic transmission consented to by the shareholder to whom the notice is given. Any such consent shall be revocable by the shareholder by written notice to the corporation. Any such consent shall be deemed revoked if:
    (A) The corporation is unable to deliver by electronic transmission two consecutive notices given by the corporation in accordance with such consent; and
    (B) Such inability becomes known to the secretary or an assistant secretary of the corporation or to the transfer agent or other person responsible for the giving of notice; provided, however, the inadvertent failure to treat such inability as a revocation shall not invalidate any meeting or other action.
  (2) Notice given pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be deemed effective:
    (A) If by facsimile telecommunication, when transmitted to a telephone number at which the shareholder has consented to receive notice;
    (B) If by e-mail, when transmitted to an e-mail address at which the shareholder has consented to receive notice;
    (C) If by a posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the shareholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (i) such posting or (ii) the giving of such separate notice; or
    (D) If by any other form of electronic transmission, when transmitted to the shareholder.
(k) An affidavit, certificate, or other written confirmation of the secretary or an assistant secretary or of the transfer agent or other agent of the corporation that the notice has been given under this Code section shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima-facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
(l) The corporation may be obligated to accept from a shareholder consents, requests, demands, or notices given and delivered under this chapter to the principal place of business of the corporation or to an officer or agent of the corporation having custody of the books in which proceedings of meetings of shareholders are recorded by electronic transmission only as provided by resolution of the board of directors of the corporation or in the articles of incorporation.
(m) Unless the registered agent of the corporation provides written consent to the corporation to the receipt of a shareholder's consent, request, demand, or notice by electronic transmission under this chapter, delivery made to a corporation's registered office shall be made by hand or by certified or registered mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 392,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
