# § 14-2-1113. Requirements inapplicable unless specifically in corporate bylaw; repeal of bylaw; applicability of Code Section 14-2-1111

(a) The requirements of this part shall not apply to business combinations of a corporation unless the bylaws of the corporation specifically provide that all of such requirements are applicable to the corporation. Such a bylaw may be adopted at any time in the manner provided in this chapter and shall apply to any business combination approved or recommended by the board of directors after the date of the bylaw's adoption. Such a bylaw shall be irrevocable except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section. Neither the adoption nor the failure to adopt such a bylaw shall constitute grounds for any cause of action against any of the directors of the corporation.
(b) Any bylaw adopted as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section may only be repealed by the affirmative vote of at least two-thirds of the continuing directors and a majority of the votes entitled to be cast by voting shares of the corporation, other than shares beneficially owned by any interested shareholder and affiliates and associates of any interested shareholder, in addition to any other vote required by the articles of incorporation or bylaws to amend the bylaws. Once the bylaw has been repealed in accordance with this subsection, the corporation shall not thereafter be entitled to adopt the bylaw in accordance with subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) The requirement of Code Section 14-2-1111 shall never apply to business combinations with an interested shareholder or its affiliates if, during the three-year period immediately preceding the consummation of the business combination, the interested shareholder has not at any time during such period:
  (1) Ceased to be an interested shareholder; or
  (2) Increased its percentage ownership of any class or series of common or preferred shares of the corporation by more than 1 percent in any 12 month period.
(d) Nothing contained in this part shall be deemed to limit in any manner a corporation's right to include in its articles of incorporation or bylaws any provision regarding the approval of business combinations which would not otherwise be prohibited by this article.
