# § 14-2-1104. Merger with subsidiary

(a) A parent corporation that owns at least 90 percent of the outstanding shares of each class and series of a subsidiary corporation may merge the subsidiary into itself or into another such subsidiary or merge itself into the subsidiary without the approval of the board of directors or shareholders of the subsidiary.
(b) The board of directors of the parent shall adopt a plan of merger that sets forth:
  (1) The names of the parent and subsidiary; and
  (2) The manner and basis of converting the shares of the parent or subsidiary into shares or other securities, obligations, rights to acquire shares or other securities, cash, other property, or any combination thereof, and if any shares of any holder of a class or series of shares are to be converted in a manner or basis different from any other holder of shares of such class or series, the manner or basis applicable to such holder.
(c) If, as provided under subsection (a) of this Code section, approval of a merger by the subsidiary's shareholders is not required, the surviving corporation shall, within ten days after the effective date of the merger, notify each of the subsidiary's shareholders that the merger has become effective.
(d) Except as provided in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Code section, a merger between a parent and a subsidiary shall be governed by the provisions of Article 11 of this chapter applicable to mergers generally.
(e) Any of the terms of the plan of merger may be made dependent upon facts ascertainable outside of the plan of merger, provided that the manner in which such facts shall operate upon the terms of the merger is clearly and expressly set forth in the plan of merger. As used in this subsection, the term "facts" includes, but is not limited to, the occurrence of any event, including a determination or action by any person or body, including the corporation.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 817,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 392, § 8, eff. 7/1/2003.
