# § 14-2-1007. Restated articles of incorporation

(a) A corporation's board of directors may restate its articles of incorporation at any time with or without shareholder action.
(b) The restatement may include one or more amendments to the articles. If the restatement includes an amendment requiring shareholder approval, it must be adopted as provided in Code Section 14-2-1003.
(c) If the board of directors submits a restatement for shareholder action, the corporation shall notify each shareholder entitled to vote of the proposed shareholders' meeting in accordance with Code Section 14-2-705. The notice must also state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider the proposed restatement and contain or be accompanied by a copy of the restatement that identifies any amendment or other change it would make in the articles or contain or be accompanied by a full and complete summary of any such amendment or other change.
(d) A corporation restating its articles of incorporation shall deliver to the Secretary of State for filing articles of restatement setting forth the name of the corporation and the text of the restated articles of incorporation including, or accompanied by a certificate setting forth, the following information:
  (1) Whether the restatement contains an amendment to the articles requiring shareholder approval, and, if it does not, that the board of directors adopted the restatement; or
  (2) If the restatement contains an amendment to the articles requiring shareholder approval, the information required by Code Section 14-2-1006.
(e) Duly adopted restated articles of incorporation supersede the original articles of incorporation and all amendments to them.
(f) The Secretary of State may certify restated articles of incorporation as the articles of incorporation currently in effect without including any certificate filed pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 392, § 5, eff. 7/1/2003.
