# § 14-2-1109. Merger with other entities

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Entity" includes any domestic or foreign nonprofit corporation, domestic or foreign limited liability company, domestic or foreign joint stock association, or domestic or foreign limited partnership.
  (2) "Governing agreements" includes the articles of incorporation and bylaws of a corporation or nonprofit corporation, articles of association or trust agreement or indenture and bylaws of a joint stock association, articles of organization and operating agreement of a limited liability company, and the certificate of limited partnership and limited partnership agreement of a limited partnership, and agreements serving comparable purposes under the laws of other states or jurisdictions.
  (3) "Joint-stock association" includes any association of the kind commonly known as a joint-stock association or joint-stock company and any unincorporated association, trust, or enterprise having members or having outstanding shares of stock or other evidences of financial and beneficial interest therein, whether formed by agreement or under statutory authority or otherwise, but shall not include a corporation, partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, or nonprofit organization. A joint-stock association as defined in this paragraph may be one formed under the laws of this state, including a trust created pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 12 of Title 53, or one formed under or pursuant to the laws of any other state or jurisdiction.
  (4) "Limited liability company" includes limited liability companies formed under the laws of this state or of any other state or territory or the District of Columbia, unless the laws of such other state or jurisdiction forbid the merger of a limited liability company with a corporation.
  (5) "Limited partnership" includes limited partnerships formed under the laws of this state or of any other state or territory or the District of Columbia, unless the laws of such other state or jurisdiction forbid the merger of a limited partnership with a corporation.
  (6) "Nonprofit corporation" includes corporations which may make no distributions to their members, directors, or officers, except as reasonable compensation for services rendered, and except as otherwise provided by law, formed under the laws of this state or of any other state or territory or the District of Columbia, unless the laws of such other state or jurisdiction forbid the merger of a nonprofit corporation with a corporation formed under a general corporation law.
  (7) "Share" includes shares, memberships, financial or beneficial interests, units, or proprietary or partnership interests in a limited liability company, joint-stock association or a limited partnership, but does not include debt obligations of any entity.
  (8) "Shareholder" includes every member of a limited liability company or a joint-stock association that is a party to a merger or holder of a share of stock or other evidence of financial or beneficial interest therein.
(b) Any one or more domestic corporations may merge with one or more entities, except an entity formed under the laws of a state or jurisdiction which forbids a merger with a corporation. The corporation or corporations and one or more entities may merge into a single corporation or other entity, which may be any one of the constituent corporations or entities.
(c) The board of directors of each merging corporation and the appropriate body of each entity, in accordance with its governing agreements and the laws of the state or jurisdiction under which it was formed, shall adopt a plan of merger in accordance with each corporation's and entity's governing agreements and the laws of the state or jurisdiction under which it was formed, as the case may be.
(d) The plan of merger:
  (1) Must set forth:
    (A) The name of each corporation and entity planning to merge and the name of the surviving corporation or entity into which each other corporation and entity plans to merge;
    (B) The terms and conditions of the merger; and
    (C) The manner and basis of converting the shares of each corporation and the shares, memberships, or financial or beneficial interests or units in each of the entities into shares or other securities, obligations, rights to acquire shares or other securities, cash, other property, or any combination of the foregoing, and if any shares of any holder of a class or series of shares are to be converted in a manner or basis different from any other holder of shares of such class or series, the manner or basis applicable to each such holder; and
  (2) May set forth:
    (A) Amendments to the articles of incorporation or governing agreements of the surviving corporation or entity;
    (B) A provision that the plan may be amended prior to the time the merger has become effective, but if shareholders of a domestic corporation that is a party to the merger or shareholders, partners, or members of a domestic entity that is a party to the merger are required or permitted to vote on the plan, subsequent to approval of the plan by such shareholders, partners, or members the plan may not be amended to change in any respect not expressly authorized by such approving shareholders, partners, or members in connection with the approval of the plan:
      (i) The amount or kind of shares or other securities, obligations, rights to acquire shares or other securities, cash, or other property to be received under the plan by the shareholders, partners, or members of any party to the merger if such change would adversely affect such approving shareholders, partners, or members;
      (ii) The articles or certificate of incorporation of any domestic or foreign corporation, or the governing agreements of any other entity, that will survive or be created as a result of the merger, except for changes permitted by Code Section 14-2-1002 or by comparable provisions of the law of the state or jurisdiction under which any such other entity was organized or changes that would not adversely affect such approving shareholders, partners, or members; or
      (iii) Any of the other terms or conditions of the plan if such change would adversely affect such approving shareholders, partners, or members in any material respect; and in the event that the plan of merger is amended after articles or a certificate of merger has been filed with the Secretary of State but before the merger has become effective, a certificate of amendment of merger executed on behalf of each party to the merger by an officer or other duly authorized representative shall be delivered to the Secretary of State for filing prior to the effectiveness of the merger; and
    (C) Other provisions relating to the merger.
(e) Any of the terms of the plan of merger may be made dependent upon facts ascertainable outside of the plan of merger, provided that the manner in which such facts shall operate upon the terms of the merger is clearly and expressly set forth in the plan of merger. As used in this subsection, the term "facts" includes, but is not limited to, the occurrence of any event, including a determination or action by any person or body, including the corporation.
(f) For a plan of merger to be approved, the board of directors of each merging corporation must recommend the plan of merger to the shareholders in the same manner and to the same extent as provided in Code Section 14-2-1103. In the case of any other entity, the plan of merger shall be approved in the manner required by its governing agreements and in compliance with any applicable laws of the state or jurisdiction under which it was formed. In addition, each of the corporations shall comply with all other Code sections of this chapter which relate to the merger of domestic corporations. Each other entity shall comply with all other provisions of its governing agreements and all provisions of the laws, if any, of the state or jurisdiction in which it was formed which relate to the merger.
(g) Each merging corporation shall comply with the requirements of Code Section 14-2-1105.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 817,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 392, § 10, eff. 7/1/2003.
