# § 14-2-1003. Amendment by board of directors and shareholders

(a) A corporation's board of directors may propose one or more amendments to the articles of incorporation for submission to the shareholders.
(b) For the amendment to be adopted:
  (1) The board of directors shall also transmit to the shareholders a recommendation that the shareholders approve the amendment, unless the board of directors makes a determination that, because of conflicts of interest or other special circumstances, it should either refrain from making such a recommendation or recommend that the shareholders reject or vote against the amendment, in which case the board of directors shall transmit to the shareholders the basis for such determination; and
  (2) The shareholders entitled to vote on the amendment must approve the amendment as provided in subsection (e) of this Code section.
(c) The board of directors may condition its submission of the proposed amendment, the effectiveness of the proposed amendment, or both on any basis.
(d) The corporation shall notify each shareholder entitled to vote of the proposed shareholders' meeting in accordance with Code Section 14-2-705. The notice of meeting must also state that the purpose or one of the purposes of the meeting is to consider the proposed amendment and contain or be accompanied by a copy or summary of the amendment.
(e) Unless this chapter, the articles of incorporation, or the board of directors acting pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section require a greater vote or a vote by voting groups, the amendment to be adopted must be approved by a majority of the votes entitled to be cast on the amendment by each voting group entitled to vote on the amendment.
(f) At any time prior to the time the amendment becomes effective, notwithstanding authorization of the proposed amendment by the shareholders of the corporation, the board of directors may abandon such proposed amendment without further shareholder action. If the amendment is abandoned after articles of amendment have been filed with the Secretary of State but before the amendment has become effective, a statement that the amendment has been abandoned in accordance with this Code section executed on behalf of the corporation shall be delivered to the Secretary of State for filing prior to the effectiveness of the amendment. Upon filing, the statement shall take effect and the amendment shall be deemed abandoned and shall not become effective.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 817,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 17, eff. 7/1/2004.
