# § 14-2-625. Form and content of certificates

(a) Shares may but need not be represented by certificates. Unless this chapter or another statute expressly provides otherwise, there shall be no differences in the rights and obligations of shareholders based on whether or not their shares are represented by certificates.
(b) At a minimum each share certificate must state on its face:
  (1) The name of the issuing corporation and that it is organized under the law of this state;
  (2) The name of the person to whom issued; and
  (3) The number and class of shares and the designation of the series, if any, the certificate represents.
(c) If the issuing corporation is authorized to issue different classes of shares or different series within a class, a reference on the certificate to the state of incorporation shall be deemed to be a reference to the articles of incorporation and its provisions governing the designations, relative rights, preferences, and limitations applicable to each class and the variations in rights, preferences, and limitations determined for each series (and the authority of the board of directors to determine variations for future series). Alternatively, each certificate may describe the designations, relative rights, preferences, and limitations, or may state conspicuously on its front or back that the corporation will furnish the shareholder this information on request in writing and without charge.
(d) Each share certificate:
  (1) Must be signed, either manually or in facsimile, by one or more officers designated in the bylaws or by the board of directors; and
  (2) May bear the corporate seal or its facsimile. If the certificate is signed in facsimile, then it must be countersigned by a transfer agent or registered by a registrar other than the corporation itself or an employee of the corporation. The transfer agent or registrar may sign either manually or by facsimile.
(e) If the person who signed a share certificate, either manually or in facsimile, no longer holds office when the certificate is issued, the certificate is nevertheless valid.
(f) No certificate valid when issued shall cease to be valid by reason of any changes in the information required or permitted to be stated on the certificate and, in the event of a change in the capital structure of a corporation, it shall not be necessary to recall any previously issued share certificate for revision of the information placed thereon pursuant to this Code section.
