# § 14-2-602. Terms of class or series determined by board of directors

(a) If the articles of incorporation so provide, the board of directors may determine, in whole or in part, the preferences, limitations, and relative rights of (1) any class of shares before the issuance of any shares of that class or (2) one or more series within a class, and designate the number of shares within that series, before the issuance of any shares of that series.
(b) Each series of a class must be given a distinguishing designation.
(c) Except to the extent otherwise permitted by Code Section 14-2-624, all shares of a class or, if applicable, series within a class must have preferences, limitations, and relative rights identical with those of other shares of the same class or series and, except to the extent otherwise provided in the description of the series, all shares of a series must have preferences, limitations, and relative rights identical with those of other series of the same class; provided, however, that any of the voting powers, preferences, designations, rights, qualifications, limitations, or restrictions of or on the class or series of shares, or the holders thereof, may be made dependent upon facts ascertainable outside the articles of incorporation if the manner in which the facts shall operate upon the voting powers, designations, preferences, rights, qualifications, limitations, or restrictions of or on the shares, or the holders thereof, is clearly and expressly set forth in the articles of incorporation. As used in this Code section, the term "facts" includes, but is not limited to, the occurrence of any event, including a determination or action by any person or body, including the corporation.
(d) Before issuing any shares of a class or series created under this Code section, the corporation must deliver to the Secretary of State for filing articles of amendment, which are effective without shareholder action, that set forth:
  (1) The name of the corporation;
  (2) The text of the amendment determining the terms of the class or series of shares;
  (3) The date it was adopted; and
  (4) A statement that the amendment was duly adopted by the board of directors.
(e) Unless otherwise provided in the articles of incorporation, if a board of directors has established a series in accordance with the terms of this Code section, the board of directors may at any time and from time to time amend the preferences, limitations, and relative rights of the series before any shares of the series have been issued; increase or decrease the number of shares contained in the series, but not below the number of shares then issued; or eliminate the series where no shares are issued. In each case the board shall do so by filing articles of amendment, which are effective without shareholder action, in the manner provided in subsection (d) of this Code section. In case the number of shares contained in a series shall be decreased or a series of shares shall be eliminated, the shares that are the subject of the decrease or that compose the series being eliminated shall resume the status that they had prior to the adoption of the articles of amendment that first established such series unless otherwise provided in the articles of incorporation or unless the board of directors causes such shares to become treasury shares.
(f) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be deemed to limit the board of directors' authority or discretion to determine the terms and conditions of rights, options, or warrants issuable pursuant to Code Section 14-2-624.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 14, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 4, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 392,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2003.
