# § 14-2-641. Effect of failure to present securities for redemption, surrender, cancellation, or payment

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Call" means a notice or demand, pursuant to a right contained in the articles of incorporation, resolution of the board of directors, or other document governing rights and preferences of shares or other securities, to redeem, cancel, or otherwise extinguish a part or all of a class or series of securities of an issuing corporation.
  (2) "Registered holder" means the holder or owner of shares or other securities as shown upon the records maintained by or on behalf of the issuer for that purpose.
  (3) "Redemption" includes the surrender, cancellation, or payment in satisfaction of or with respect to shares or other securities by an issuer.
(b) When a corporation has duly and properly called for redemption of any securities and the registered holder of the securities has been sent notice of call at his or her last address as it appears on the records of the corporation but fails to present the certificate for the securities or otherwise take action as required by the call within 60 days of the effective date of the call or such longer time as may be specified in the notice of the call, then the corporation may transfer the money or other property distributable upon the redemption to a trustee, for the benefit of the registered owner or his or her successors in title, and thereupon the securities shall be deemed as of the effective date of the call to have been redeemed, canceled, or paid and no longer outstanding.
(c) In order for the transfer to the trustee permitted by subsection (b) of this Code section to be effective for this purpose, the corporation must have adopted a plan therefor prior to the call, and must have sent notice to the registered holder of the securities of the details of the plan, including the name and address of the trustee, at the time of the sending of the notice of the call. The registered holder for whom the transfer in trust is made or his or her successors in title shall have only the right to obtain the money or other property from the trustee:
  (1) In the case of certificated securities, upon surrender to the trustee of the certificates involved; and
  (2) In the case of uncertificated securities, upon satisfying the trustee that he or she was the registered holder.
(d) Any money or other property held by the trustee which is not claimed by the registered holder within six years from the date of the transfer to the trustee shall be distributed to the persons and in the manner provided in the plan previously adopted or, if the provisions for distribution are held to be invalid or the plan does not contain provisions for distribution, shall be distributed to and become the property of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia, to be used for educational purposes. The trustee appointed under this Code section must be a bank or trust company located in the State of Georgia.
(e) The procedures specified in subsections (b) through (d) of this Code section shall not be exclusive of other procedures, not otherwise inconsistent with law, specified in the articles of incorporation, including an amendment of the articles of incorporation adopted by the board of directors establishing and designating a series of preferred shares and fixing and determining the relative rights and preferences of a series of preferred shares, or in the instruments governing any other securities, with respect to the redemption of the securities, and, upon compliance by a corporation with any of those procedures, the shares or other securities shall be deemed as of the date provided in those procedures to have been redeemed, canceled, and no longer to be outstanding, regardless of whether the holders thereof shall have taken the steps provided in this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 7, eff. 7/1/2004.
