# § 42-8-66. Petition for exoneration and discharge; hearing; retroactive grant of first offender status; no filing fee

(a)
  (1) An individual who qualified for sentencing pursuant to this article but who was not informed of his or her eligibility for first offender treatment may, with the consent of the prosecuting attorney, petition the court in which he or she was convicted for exoneration of guilt and discharge pursuant to this article.
  (2) An individual who was sentenced between March 18, 1968, and October 31, 1982, to a period of incarceration not exceeding one year but who would otherwise have qualified for sentencing pursuant to this article may, with the consent of the prosecuting attorney, petition the court in which he or she was convicted for exoneration of guilt and discharge pursuant to this article.
(b) The court shall hold a hearing on the petition if requested by the petitioner or prosecuting attorney or desired by the court.
(c) In considering a petition pursuant to this Code section, the court may consider any:
  (1) Evidence introduced by the petitioner;
  (2) Evidence introduced by the prosecuting attorney; and
  (3) Other relevant evidence.
(d) The court may issue an order retroactively granting first offender treatment and discharge the defendant pursuant to this article if the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the defendant was eligible for sentencing under the terms of this article at the time he or she was originally sentenced or that he or she qualifies for sentencing under paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section and the ends of justice and the welfare of society are served by granting such petition.
(e) The court shall send a copy of any order issued pursuant to this Code section to the petitioner, the prosecuting attorney, the Georgia Crime Information Center, and the Department of Driver Services. The Georgia Crime Information Center and the Department of Driver Services shall modify their records accordingly.
(f) This Code section shall not apply to a sentence that may be modified pursuant to subsection (f) of Code Section 17-10-1.
(g) This Code section shall apply to any sentence entered on or after March 18, 1968.
(h) There shall be no filing fee charged for a petition filed pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 416,§ 2-15, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 219,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 6A-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-75, eff. 7/1/2015.
