# § 42-8-109.3. Registration with board

(a)
  (1) All private corporations, private enterprises, and private agencies contracting or offering to contract for probation services shall register with DCS before entering into any contract to provide services. Any private corporation, private enterprise, or private agency registered with the board on or before June 30, 2016, shall be deemed registered with DCS; provided, however, that DCS shall be authorized to review such contract and shall be responsible for subsequent renewals or changes to such contract. The information included in such registration shall include the name of the corporation, enterprise, or agency, its principal business address and telephone number, the name of its agent for communication, and other information in such detail as DCS may require. No registration fee shall be required.
  (2) Any private corporation, private enterprise, or private agency required to register under the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection which fails or refuses to do so shall be subject to revocation of any existing contracts, in addition to any other fines or sanctions imposed by the board.
(b)
  (1) All counties, municipalities, and consolidated governments agreeing or offering to agree to establish a probation system shall register with DCS before entering into an agreement to provide services. Any county, municipality, or consolidated government that has a probation system registered with the board on or before June 30, 2016, shall be deemed registered with DCS; provided, however, that DCS shall be authorized to review such systems and shall be responsible for subsequent renewals or changes to such systems. The information included in such registration shall include the name of the county, municipality, or consolidated government, the principal business address and telephone number, a contact name for communication with DCS, and other information in such detail as DCS may require. No registration fee shall be required.
  (2) Any county, municipality, or consolidated government required to register under the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection which fails or refuses to do so shall be subject to revocation of existing agreements, in addition to any other sanctions imposed by the board.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 7-11, eff. 7/1/2016.
Renumbered from § 42-8-107 and amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 221,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 743,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
