# § 42-8-109.4. Applicability of article to contractors for probation services; requirements for private corporations, private enterprises and private agencies entering into written contracts for services

(a) The probation providers standards contained in this Code section shall be met by private corporations, private enterprises, or private agencies that enter into written contracts for probation services under the authority of Code Section 42-8-101. Any private corporation, private enterprise, or private agency which fails to meet the standards established in this subsection shall not be eligible to provide probation services in this state. All private corporations, private enterprises, or private agencies that enter into written contracts for probation services under the authority of Code Section 42-8-101 shall:
  (1) Register with DCS;
  (2) Meet all requirements as outlined in subsection (b) of Code Section 42-8-107;
  (3) Not own or control any finance business or lending institution which makes loans to probationers under its supervision; and
  (4) Employ at least one person who is responsible for the direct supervision of private probation officers employed by the corporation, enterprise, or agency and who shall have at least five years' experience in corrections, parole, or probation services.
(b) The standards contained in this subsection shall be met by all counties, municipalities, or consolidated governments entering into written agreements to provide probation services to any court under the authority of Code Section 42-8-101. Any county, municipality, or consolidated government which fails to meet the standards established in this subsection shall not be eligible to provide probation services. All counties, municipalities, or consolidated governments which enter into written agreements to provide probation services under the authority of Code Section 42-8-101 shall:
  (1) Register with DCS;
  (2) Meet the requirements of subsection (c) of Code Section 42-8-107; and
  (3) Employ at least one person who is responsible for the direct supervision of probation officers and who shall have at least five years' experience in corrections, parole, or probation services.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 7-12, eff. 7/1/2016.
Renumbered from § 42-8-108 and amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 743,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
