# § 42-8-108. Quarterly report to judge and council; records to be open for inspection

(a) Any private corporation, private enterprise, or private agency contracting to provide probation services or any county, municipality, or consolidated government entering into an agreement under the provisions of this article shall provide to the judge who consented to such contract or agreement and DCS a quarterly report summarizing the number of offenders under supervision; the amount of fines, statutory surcharges, and restitution collected; the amount of fees collected and the nature of such fees, including probation supervision fees, rehabilitation programming fees, electronic monitoring fees, drug or alcohol detection device fees, substance abuse or mental health evaluation or treatment fees if such services are provided directly or otherwise to the extent such fees are known, and drug testing fees; the number of community service hours performed by probationers under supervision; a listing of any other service for which a probationer was required to pay to attend; the number of offenders for whom supervision or rehabilitation has been terminated and the reason for the termination; and the number of warrants issued during the quarter, in such detail as DCS may require. Information reported pursuant to this subsection shall be annually submitted to the governing authority that entered into such contract and thereafter be subject to disclosure pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50. Local governments are encouraged to post electronic copies of the annual report on the local government's website, if such website exists.
(b) All records of any private corporation, private enterprise, or private agency contracting to provide services or of any county, municipality, or consolidated government entering into an agreement under the provisions of this article shall be open to inspection upon the request of the affected county, municipality, consolidated government, court, the Department of Audits and Accounts, an auditor appointed by the affected county, municipality, or consolidated government, the Department of Corrections, DCS, the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, or the board.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 42, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 7-9, eff. 7/1/2016.
Renumbered from § 42-8-103 and amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 743,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
