# § 42-8-109. Private entities conflicts of interest prohibited

(a) No private corporation, private enterprise, or private agency contracting to provide probation services under the provisions of this article nor any employees of such entities shall engage in any other employment, business, or activity which interferes or conflicts with the duties and responsibilities under contracts authorized in this article.
(b) No private corporation, private enterprise, or private agency contracting to provide probation services under the provisions of this article nor its employees shall have personal or business dealings, including the lending of money, with probationers under their supervision.
(c)
  (1) No private corporation, private enterprise, or private agency contracting to provide probation services under the provisions of this article nor any employees of such entities, shall own, operate, have any financial interest in, be an instructor at, or be employed by any private entity which provides drug or alcohol education services or offers a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program certified by the Department of Driver Services.
  (2) No private corporation, private enterprise, or private agency contracting to provide probation services under the provisions of this article nor any employees of such entities shall specify, directly or indirectly, a particular DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program which a probationer may or shall attend. This paragraph shall not prohibit furnishing any probationer, upon request, with the names of certified DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Programs. Any person violating this paragraph shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Renumbered from § 42-8-104 and amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 743,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 24-2, eff. 7/1/2005.
