# § 42-8-103. Pay-only probation; discharge or termination of probation

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "pay-only probation" means a defendant has been placed under probation supervision solely because such defendant is unable to pay the court imposed fines and statutory surcharges when such defendant's sentence is imposed. Such term shall not include circumstances when restitution has been imposed or other probation services are deemed appropriate by the court.
(b) When pay-only probation is imposed, the total maximum fee collected shall be capped so as not to exceed three months of ordinary probation supervision fees at a monthly rate not to exceed the rate set forth in the contract between the court and the provider of services, notwithstanding the number of cases for which a fine and statutory surcharge were imposed or that the defendant was sentenced to serve consecutive sentences; provided, however, that collection of such fee shall terminate as soon as all court imposed fines and statutory surcharges are paid in full; and provided, further, that when all such fines and statutory surcharges are paid in full, the probation officer or private probation officer, as the case may be, shall submit an order to the court terminating the probated sentence within 30 days of fulfillment of such conditions. Within 90 days of receiving such order, the court shall issue an order terminating such probated sentence or issue an order stating why such probated sentence shall continue.
(c) If pay-only probation is subsequently converted to a sentence that requires community service, on petition by a probation officer or private probation officer and with the probationer having an opportunity for a hearing, the court may reinstate probation supervision fees as necessary to monitor the probationer's compliance with community service obligations.
(d) When a defendant is serving pay-only probation, upon motion by the defendant, the court may discharge such defendant from further supervision or otherwise terminate probation when it is satisfied that its action would be in the best interest of justice and the welfare of society.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 416,§ 2-17, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 7-4, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
