# § 42-8-34.1. Revocation of probated or suspended sentence; alternative sentencing; burden of proof; length of probation supervision

(a) For the purposes of this Code section, the term "special condition of probation or suspension of the sentence" means a condition of a probated or suspended sentence which:
  (1) Is expressly imposed as part of the sentence in addition to general conditions of probation and court ordered fines and fees; and
  (2) Is identified in writing in the sentence as a condition the violation of which authorizes the court to revoke the probation or suspension and require the defendant to serve up to the balance of the sentence in confinement.
(b) A court may not revoke any part of any probated or suspended sentence unless the defendant admits the violation as alleged or unless the evidence produced at the revocation hearing establishes by a preponderance of the evidence the violation or violations alleged.
(c) At any revocation hearing, upon proof that the defendant has violated any general provision of probation or suspension other than by commission of a new felony offense, the court shall consider the use of alternatives to include community service, probation detention centers, special alternative incarceration, or any other alternative to confinement deemed appropriate by the court or as provided by the state or county. In the event the court determines that the defendant does not meet the criteria for such alternatives, the court may revoke the balance of probation or not more than two years in confinement, whichever is less.
(d) If the violation of probation or suspension alleged and proven by a preponderance of the evidence or the defendant's admission is the commission of a felony offense, the court may revoke no more than the lesser of the balance of probation or the maximum time of the sentence authorized to be imposed for the felony offense constituting the violation of the probation. For purposes of this Code section, the term "felony offense" means:
  (1) A felony offense;
  (2) A misdemeanor offense committed in another state on or after July 1, 2010, the elements of which are proven by a preponderance of evidence showing that such offense would constitute a felony if the act had been committed in this state; or
  (3) A misdemeanor offense committed in another state on or after July 1, 2010, that is admitted to by the defendant who also admits that such offense would be a felony if the act had been committed in this state.
(e) If the violation of probation or suspension alleged and proven by a preponderance of the evidence or the defendant's admission is the violation of a special condition of probation or suspension of the sentence, the court may revoke the probation or suspension of the sentence and require the defendant to serve the balance or portion of the balance of the original sentence in confinement.
(f) The payment of restitution or reparation, costs, or fines ordered by the court may be payable in one lump sum or in periodic payments, as determined by the court after consideration of all the facts and circumstances of the case and of the defendant's ability to pay. Such payments shall, in the discretion of the sentencing judge, be made either to the clerk of the sentencing court or, if the sentencing court is a probate court, state court, or superior court, to the DCS office serving such court.
(g) In no event shall an offender be supervised on probation for more than a total of two years for any one offense or series of offenses arising out of the same transaction, whether before or after confinement, except as provided by paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 17-10-1 and subsection (g) of Code Section 42-8-34.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 8-5, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 4-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 426,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 20, § 7, eff. 7/1/2001.
