# § 42-8-35.6. Family violence intervention program participation as condition of probation; cost borne by defendant

(a) Notwithstanding any other terms or conditions of probation which may be imposed, a court sentencing a defendant to probation for an offense involving family violence as such term is defined in Code Section 19-13-10 shall require as a condition of probation that the defendant participate in a family violence intervention program certified pursuant to Article 1A of Chapter 13 of Title 19, unless the court determines and states on the record why participation in such a program is not appropriate.
(b) A court, in addition to imposing any penalty provided by law, when revoking a defendant's probation for an offense involving family violence as defined by Code Section 19-13-10, or when imposing a protective order against family violence, shall order the defendant to participate in a family violence intervention program certified pursuant to Article 1A of Chapter 13 of Title 19, unless the court determines and states on the record why participation in such program is not appropriate.
(c) The State Board of Pardons and Paroles, for a violation of parole for an offense involving family violence as defined by Code Section 19-13-10, shall require the conditional releasee to participate in a family violence intervention program certified pursuant to Article 1A of Chapter 13 of Title 19, unless the State Board of Pardons and Paroles determines why participation in such a program is not appropriate.
(d) Unless the defendant is indigent, the cost of the family violence intervention program as provided by this Code section shall be borne by the defendant. If the defendant is indigent, then the cost of the program shall be determined by a sliding scale based upon the defendant's ability to pay.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 989, § 6, eff. 7/1/2003.
