# § 42-8-26. Qualifications of officer; compensation and expenses; conflicts of interest; bonds

(a)
  (1) In order for a person to be an officer, he or she shall be at least 21 years of age at the time of appointment and shall have completed a standard two-year college course. The qualifications provided in this Code section are the minimum qualifications, and DCS is authorized to prescribe such additional and higher educational qualifications from time to time as it deems desirable, but not to exceed a four-year standard college course.
  (2) After January 1, 2016, in order for a person to be an officer, he or she shall complete the basic course of training for supervision of probations and parolees certified by the Peace Officer Standards and Training Council; provided, however, that such requirement shall be waived if such person is a certified peace officer.
(b) The compensation of officers shall be set pursuant to the rules of the State Personnel Board. Officers shall also be allowed travel and other expenses as are other state employees.
(c)
  (1) No officer shall engage in any other employment, business, or activities which interfere or conflict with his or her duties and responsibilities as an officer.
  (2) No officer shall own, operate, have any financial interest in, be an instructor at, or be employed by any private entity which provides drug or alcohol education services or offers a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program certified by the Department of Driver Services.
  (3) No officer shall specify, directly or indirectly, a particular DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program which a probationer may or shall attend. This paragraph shall not prohibit such officer from furnishing any probationer, upon request, the names of certified DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Programs. Any officer violating this paragraph shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d) Each officer shall give bond in such amount as may be fixed by DCS for the use of the person or persons damaged by his or her misfeasance or malfeasance and conditioned on the faithful performance of his or her duties. The cost of the bond shall be paid by DCS; provided, however, that the bond may be procured, either by DCS or by the Department of Administrative Services, under a master policy or on a group blanket coverage basis, where only the number of positions in each judicial circuit and the amount of coverage for each position are listed in a schedule attached to the bond; and in such case each individual shall be fully bonded and bound as principal, together with the surety, by virtue of his or her holding the position or performing the duties of officer in the circuit or circuits, and his or her individual signature shall not be necessary for such bond to be valid in accordance with all the laws of this state. The bond or bonds shall be made payable to DCS.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 4-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-63, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 24-1, eff. 7/1/2005.
