# § 42-8-38. Arrest or graduated sanctions for probationers violating terms; hearing; disposition of charge; procedure when probation revoked in county other than that of conviction

(a) Whenever, within the period of probation, an officer believes that a probationer under his or her supervision has violated the terms of probation in a material respect, if graduated sanctions have been made a condition of probation by the court, the officer may impose graduated sanctions as set forth in Code Section 42-8-23 to address the specific conduct leading to such violation or, if the circumstances warrant, may arrest the probationer without warrant, wherever found, and return the probationer to the court granting the probation or, if under supervision in a county or judicial circuit other than that of conviction, to a court of equivalent original criminal jurisdiction within the county wherein the probationer resides for purposes of supervision. Any officer authorized by law to issue warrants may issue a warrant for the arrest of the probationer upon the affidavit of one having knowledge of the alleged violation, returnable forthwith before the court in which revocation proceedings are being brought.
(b) The court, upon the probationer being brought before it, may commit the probationer or release the probationer with or without bail to await further hearing, or it may dismiss the charge. If the charge is not dismissed at this time, the court shall give the probationer an opportunity to be heard fully at the earliest possible date on his or her own behalf, in person or by counsel, provided that, if the revocation proceeding is in a court other than the court of the original criminal conviction, the sentencing court shall be given ten days' written notice prior to a hearing on the merits.
(c) After the hearing, the court may revoke, modify, or continue the probation. If the probation is revoked, the court may order the execution of the sentence originally imposed or of any portion thereof. In such event, the time that the defendant has served under probation shall be considered as time served and shall be deducted from and considered a part of the time he or she was originally sentenced to serve.
(d) In cases where the probation is revoked in a county other than the county of original conviction, the clerk of court in the county revoking probation may record the order of revocation in the minutes of the court, which recordation shall constitute sufficient permanent record of the proceedings in such court. The clerk shall send copies of the order revoking probation to DCS and the Department of Corrections to serve as a temporary commitment and shall send the original order revoking probation and all other papers pertaining thereto to the county of original conviction to be filed with the original records. The clerk of court of the county of original conviction shall then issue a formal commitment to the Department of Corrections.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 4-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 709,§ VII-7-11, eff. 7/1/2012.
