# § 42-8-21. Definitions

(1) "DCS" means the Department of Community Supervision.
(2) "Officer" means a community supervision officer as defined in Code Section 42-3-1.
(3) "Qualified offense" means a felony offense of:
  (A) Burglary in the second degree in violation of Code Section 16-7-1;
  (B) Possession of tools for the commission of crime in violation of Code Section 16-7-20;
  (C) Criminal damage to property in the second degree in violation of Code Section 16-7-23;
  (D) Interference with government property in violation of Code Section 16-7-24;
  (E) Arson in the third degree in violation of Code Section 16-7-62;
  (F) Burning of woodlands, brush, fields, or other lands in violation of Code Section 16-7-63 when the punishment is as set forth in paragraph (2) of subsection (c) of Code Section 16-7-63;
  (G) Theft in violation of Code Sections 16-8-2 through 16-8-9 when the punishment is as set forth in subparagraph (a)(1)(B) or (a)(1)(C) of Code Section 16-8-12;
  (H) Theft by shoplifting in violation of Code Section 16-8-14;
  (I) Refund fraud in violation of Code Section 16-8-14.1;
  (J) Conversion of payments for real property improvements in violation of Code Section 16-8-15;
  (K) Entering an automobile or other motor vehicle with intent to commit theft or felony in violation of Code Section 16-8-18;
  (L) Livestock theft in violation of Code Section 16-8-20;
  (M) Forgery in violation of Code Section 16-9-1;
  (N) Printing, executing, or negotiating checks, drafts, orders, or debit card sales drafts knowing information thereon to be in error, fictitious, or assigned to another account holder in violation of Code Section 16-9-21;
  (O) Financial transaction card offenses in violation of Code Section 16-9-31, 16-9-32, 16-9-33, 16-9-34, 16-9-35, 16-9-36.1, or 16-9-37, provided that the aggregate value of the loss does not exceed $25,000.00;
  (P) Failing to pay for natural products or chattels in violation of Code Section 16-9-58;
  (Q) Purchasing, possessing, manufacturing, delivering, distributing, administering, selling, or possessing with the intent to distribute controlled substances, marijuana, counterfeit substances, or flunitrazepam in violation of Code Section 16-13-30;
  (R) Unlawfully manufacturing, delivering, distributing, selling, or possessing with the intent to distribute noncontrolled substances in violation of Code Section 16-13-30.1;
  (S) Possession of substances containing ephedrine or pseudoephedrine or sales of products containing those ingredients in violation of Code Section 16-13-30.3 when the punishment is as set forth in paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of Code Section 16-13-30.3; and
  (T) Violation of Article 3 of Chapter 13 of Title 16 when the punishment is as set forth in subsection (b) of Code Section 16-13-79.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 226,§ 2-5, eff. 7/1/2017.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 4-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
