# § 42-8-101. Agreements for probation services; termination of contract for probation services

(a)
  (1) Upon the request of the chief judge of any court within a county and with the express written consent of such judge, the governing authority of such county shall be authorized to enter into written contracts with corporations, enterprises, or agencies to provide probation supervision, counseling, collection services for all moneys to be paid by a defendant according to the terms of the sentence imposed on the defendant as well as any moneys which by operation of law are to be paid by the defendant in consequence of the conviction, and other probation services for persons convicted in such court and placed on probation in such county. In no case shall a private probation corporation or enterprise be charged with the responsibility for supervising a felony sentence. The final contract negotiated by the governing authority of the county with the private probation entity shall be attached to the approval by the governing authority of the county to privatize probation services as an exhibit thereto. The termination of a contract for probation services as provided for in this subsection may be initiated by the chief judge of the court which is subject to such contract and shall be subject to approval by the governing authority of the county which entered into the contract and in accordance with the agreed upon, written provisions of such contract.
  (2) Upon the request of the chief judge of any court within a county and with the express written consent of such judge, the governing authority of such county shall be authorized to establish a county probation system to provide probation supervision, counseling, collection services for all moneys to be paid by a defendant according to the terms of the sentence imposed on the defendant as well as any moneys which by operation of law are to be paid by the defendant in consequence of the conviction, and other probation services for persons convicted in such court and placed on probation in such county.
(b)
  (1) Upon the request of the judge of the municipal court of any municipality or consolidated government of a municipality and county of this state and with the express written consent of such judge, the governing authority of such municipality or consolidated government shall be authorized to enter into written contracts with private corporations, enterprises, or agencies to provide probation supervision, counseling, collection services for all moneys to be paid by a defendant according to the terms of the sentence imposed on the defendant as well as any moneys which by operation of law are to be paid by the defendant in consequence of the conviction, and other probation services for persons convicted in such court and placed on probation. The final contract negotiated by the governing authority of the municipality or consolidated government with the private probation entity shall be attached to the approval by the governing authority of the municipality or consolidated government to privatize probation services as an exhibit thereto. The termination of a contract for probation services as provided for in this subsection may be initiated by the chief judge of the court which is subject to such contract and shall be subject to approval by the governing authority of the municipality or consolidated government which entered into the contract and in accordance with the agreed upon, written provisions of such contract.
  (2) Upon the request of the judge of the municipal court of any municipality or consolidated government of a municipality and county of this state and with the express written consent of such judge, the governing authority of such municipality or consolidated government shall be authorized to establish a probation system to provide probation supervision, counseling, collection services for all moneys to be paid by a defendant according to the terms of the sentence imposed on the defendant as well as any moneys which by operation of law are to be paid by the defendant in consequence of the conviction, and other probation services for persons convicted in such court and placed on probation.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 7-2, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
