# § 42-8-105. Probationer obligation to keep officer informed of certain information; tolling for failure to meet certain obligations; procedure

(a) It shall be the duty of a probationer, as a condition of probation, to keep his or her probation officer or private probation officer, as the case may be, informed as to his or her contact information, including residence and mailing address, telephone number, and email address. The court may also require, as a condition of probation and under such terms as the court deems advisable, that the probationer keep his or her probation officer or private probation officer, as the case may be, informed as to his or her whereabouts.
(b)
  (1) The running of a probated sentence may be tolled upon the failure of a probationer to appear in court for a probation revocation hearing or to report as directed to his or her probation officer or private probation officer, as the case may be; either of such failures shall be evidenced by an affidavit from the probation officer or private probation officer, as the case may be, setting forth such failure and stating efforts made by such officer to contact the probationer. When the allegation is for failure to report, such affidavit shall include, at a minimum, an averment by the probation officer or private probation officer that:
    (A) The probationer has failed to report to his or her probation officer or private probation officer, as the case may be, on at least two occasions;
    (B) The officer has attempted to contact the probationer at least two times by telephone or email at the probationer's last known telephone number or email address, which information shall be listed in the affidavit;
    (C) The officer has checked the local jail rosters and determined that the probationer is not incarcerated;
    (D) The officer has sent a letter by first-class mail to the probationer's last known address, which shall be listed in the affidavit, advising the probationer that the officer will seek a tolling order if the probationer does not report to such officer in person within ten days of the date on which the letter was mailed; and
    (E) The probationer has failed to report to the probation officer or private probation officer, as the case may be, as directed in the letter set forth in subparagraph (D) of this paragraph and ten days have passed since the date on which the letter was mailed.
  (2) In the event the probationer does not report to his or her probation officer or private probation officer, as the case may be, within the period prescribed in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (1) of this subsection, such officer shall submit the affidavit required by this subsection to the court. If the probationer reports to his or her probation officer or private probation officer, as the case may be, within the period prescribed in subparagraph (D) of paragraph (1) of this subsection, such officer shall neither submit such affidavit nor seek a tolling order.
(c) Upon receipt of the affidavit required by subsection (b) of this Code section, the court may, in its discretion, toll the probated sentence.
(d) The effective date of the tolling of the sentence shall be the date the court enters a tolling order and shall continue until the probationer personally reports to the probation officer or private probation officer, as the case may be, is taken into custody in this state, or is otherwise available to the court, whichever event first occurs. The clerk of court, or judge of any court when there is no clerk of court, shall transmit a copy of a tolling order to the Georgia Crime Information Center within 30 days of the filing of such order.
(e) Any tolled period of time shall not be included in computing creditable time served on probation or as any part of the time that the probationer was sentenced to serve.
(f) Any unpaid fines, restitution, or other moneys owed as a condition of probation shall be due when the probationer is arrested; provided, however, that if the entire balance of his or her probation is revoked, all the conditions of probation, including moneys owed, shall be negated by his or her imprisonment. If only part of the balance of the probation is revoked, the court shall determine the probationer's responsibility for the amount of the unpaid fines, restitution, and other moneys owed that shall be imposed upon his or her return to probation after release from imprisonment and may reduce arrearages under the same circumstances and conditions as set forth in subsection (f) of Code Section 42-8-102.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 42, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 416,§ 2-18, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 6B-9 and § 7-6, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
