# § 42-8-109.1. Public entities and employees conflicts of interest prohibited

(a) No county, municipality, or consolidated government probation office employee shall engage in any other employment, business, or activity which interferes or conflicts with the employee's duties and responsibilities under agreements authorized in this article.
(b) No county, municipality, or consolidated government probation office employee shall have personal or business dealings, including the lending of money, with probationers under the supervision of such probation office.
(c)
  (1) No county, municipality, or consolidated government probation office employee shall own, operate, have any financial interest in, be an instructor at, or be employed by any private entity which provides drug or alcohol education services or offers a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program certified by the Department of Driver Services.
  (2) No county, municipality, or consolidated government that provides probation services through agreement under the provisions of this article nor any employees of such shall specify, directly or indirectly, a particular DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program which a probationer may or shall attend. This paragraph shall not prohibit furnishing any probationer, upon request, with the names of certified DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Programs. Any person violating this paragraph shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Renumbered from § 42-8-105 and amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 743,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
