# § 42-8-117. Revocation of driving privilege upon violation of probation imposed by Code Section 42-8-111

(a)
  (1) In the event the sentencing court revokes a person's probation after finding that such person has violated the terms of the certificate of eligibility for an ignition interlock device limited driving permit or probationary license issued pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 42-8-111, the Department of Driver Services shall revoke that person's driving privilege for one year from the date the court revokes that person's probation. The court shall report such probation revocation to the Department of Driver Services by court order.
  (2) This subsection shall not apply to any person whose limited driving permit has been revoked under subsection (d) of Code Section 42-8-112.
(b) In the event the sentencing court revokes a person's probation after finding that such person has twice violated the terms of the certificate of eligibility for an ignition interlock device limited driving permit or probationary license issued pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 42-8-111 during the same period of probation, the Department of Driver Services shall revoke that person's driving privilege for five years from the date the court revokes that person's probation for a second time. The court shall report such probation revocation to the Department of Driver Services by court order.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 579,§; 9, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§; 24-8, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 555, §; 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 42, eff. 4/18/2002.
