# § 42-8-23. Administration of supervision of felony probationers by DCS; graduated sanctions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "chief officer" means the highest ranking field officer in each judicial circuit who does not have direct supervision of the probationer who is the subject of the hearing.
(b) DCS shall administer the supervision of felony probationers.
(c) If graduated sanctions have been made a condition of probation by the court and if a probationer violates the conditions of his or her probation, other than for the commission of a new offense, DCS may impose graduated sanctions as an alternative to judicial modification or revocation of probation, provided that such graduated sanctions are approved by a chief officer.
(d) The failure of a probationer to comply with the graduated sanction or sanctions imposed by DCS shall constitute a violation of probation.
(e) A probationer may at any time voluntarily accept the graduated sanctions proposed by DCS.
(f)
  (1) DCS's decision shall be final unless the probationer files an appeal in the sentencing court. Such appeal shall be filed within 30 days of the issuance of the decision by DCS.
  (2) Such appeal shall first be reviewed by the sentencing court upon the record. At the court's discretion, a de novo hearing may be held on the decision. The filing of the appeal shall not stay DCS's decision.
  (3) When the sentencing court does not act on the appeal within 30 days of the date of the filing of the appeal, DCS's decision shall be affirmed by operation of law.
(g) Nothing contained in this Code section shall alter the relationship between judges and officers prescribed in this article nor be construed as repealing any power given to any court of this state to place offenders on probation or to supervise offenders.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 4-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 709,§ VII-7-7, eff. 7/1/2012.
