# § 42-8-35.2. Special term of probation; when imposed; revocation; suspension

(a) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, the court, when imposing a sentence of imprisonment after a conviction of a violation of subsection (b) or (d) of Code Section 16-13-30 or after a conviction of a violation of Code Section 16-13-31, shall impose a special term of probation of three years in addition to such term of imprisonment; provided, however, that, upon a second or subsequent conviction of a violation of the provisions of such Code sections, the special term of probation shall be six years in addition to any term of imprisonment.
(b) A special term of probation imposed under this Code section may be revoked if the terms and conditions of probation are violated. In such circumstances the original term of imprisonment shall be increased by the period of the special term of probation and the resulting new term of imprisonment shall not be diminished by the time which was spent on special probation. A person whose special term of probation has been revoked may be required to serve all or part of the remainder of the new term of imprisonment. A special term of probation provided for in this Code section shall be in addition to, and not in lieu of, any other probation provided for by law and shall be supervised in the same manner as other probations as provided in this chapter.
(c) Upon written application by the probationer to the trial court, the court may, in its discretion, suspend the balance of any special term of probation, provided that at least one-half of such special term of probation has been completed and all fines associated with the original sentence have been paid and all other terms of the original sentence and the terms of the special probation have been met by the probationer.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 4-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
