# § 46-1-1. Definitions

(1) "Certificate" means a certificate of public convenience and necessity issued pursuant to this title.
(2) "Commission" means the Public Service Commission.
(3) "Company" shall include a corporation, a firm, a partnership, an association, or an individual.
(4) "Electric utility" means any retail supplier of electricity whose rates are fixed by the commission.
(5) "Gas company" means any person certificated under Article 2 of Chapter 4 of this title to construct or operate any pipeline or distribution system, or any extension thereof, for the transportation, distribution, or sale of natural or manufactured gas.
(6) "Person" means any individual, partnership, trust, private or public corporation, municipality, county, political subdivision, public authority, cooperative, association, or public or private organization of any character.
(7) "Railroad corporation" or "railroad company" means all corporations, companies, or individuals owning or operating any railroad in this state. This title shall apply to all persons, firms, and companies, and to all associations of persons, whether incorporated or otherwise, that engage in business as common carriers upon any of the lines of railroad in this state, as well as to railroad corporations and railroad companies as defined in this Code section.
(8) "Rate," when used in this title with respect to an electric utility, means any rate, charge, classification, or service of an electric utility or any rule or regulation relating thereto.
(9) "Utility" means any person who is subject in any way to the lawful jurisdiction of the commission.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 632,§ II-14, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 46, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 119,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 130,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 357,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 332,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 28-1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 46, eff. 4/18/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 972, § 8, eff. 7/1/2002.
