# § 35-1-20. Retention of weapons by officers following employment

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Honorable conditions" means conditions of having satisfied, met, or exceeded the conduct and performance standards established by the state entity for sworn police officers.
  (2) "State entity" means any state department, agency, board, bureau, office, commission, public corporation, system, or authority.
(b) The governing authority of each municipality and county in this state and each board of education which employs sworn police officers who are certified by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council may adopt policies under which such sworn police officers, upon their retirement from employment by such municipality, county, or board of education or upon leaving such employment as a result of a disability arising in the line of duty, shall be entitled, as part of their compensation, to retain their weapon and badge.
(c) Except where otherwise provided for by law for a state entity, each state entity which employs sworn police officers who are certified by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council shall adopt rules, regulations, or policies under which such sworn police officers, upon their retirement from employment by such state entity or upon leaving such employment as a result of a disability arising in the line of duty, shall be entitled, as part of their compensation, to retain their weapon and badge; provided, however, that such sworn police officers retire or leave under honorable conditions.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 20,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2017.
Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 609,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
