# § 35-1-6. Appointment of nonuniformed investigators; salaries; status; assignment; powers

(a) The commissioner is authorized to appoint five nonuniformed investigators who shall be certified peace officers pursuant to Chapter 8 of this title, the "Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act." The commissioner shall determine the salaries of such investigators. The investigators shall be in the unclassified service as defined by Code Section 45-20-2 and therefore shall not be governed by any rules of position, classification, appointment, promotion, demotion, transfer, dismissal, qualification, compensation, seniority privileges, tenure, or other such matters concerning their employment as may now or hereafter be established by the State Personnel Board or any successor boards or agencies. The investigators shall be assigned to the Internal Affairs Section of the Department of Public Safety in the office of the commissioner at the department's headquarters complex.
(b) The investigators shall have full arrest powers in cases involving internal affairs and in such cases shall be authorized:
  (1) To investigate crimes committed anywhere in the state;
  (2) To arrest any person violating the criminal laws of this state;
  (3) To serve and execute warrants after notifying the law enforcement agency of the local jurisdiction of the intent to serve such warrant or warrants;
  (4) To enforce in general the criminal laws of this state; and
  (5) To carry firearms while performing their duties.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-46, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
