# § 45-15-30. Created; assistants, deputies, and other personnel; determination of duties, salaries, and promotions; limitation on private practice of law; disclosure requirement for assistant attorney general representing criminal defendant

There is created a Department of Law with the Attorney General at the head thereof and with such numbers of deputy attorneys general, assistant attorneys general, special assistant attorneys general, other attorneys, paraprofessional personnel, and other employees or independent contractors as the Attorney General shall deem necessary to carry out the functions of the Attorney General and the Department of Law. The Attorney General is authorized to determine the title and to change the title of any attorney or other employee of the Department of Law or any attorney at law under independent contract to the Department of Law in order to define the duties and responsibilities of any attorney or other employee of the said department and to establish salaries and effect promotions of any such attorney or other employee of the said department, except that those positions in the department which are within the classified service on April 18, 1975, shall be covered by the procedures prescribed by the State Personnel Board. Neither the Attorney General nor any other attorney at law employed full time by the Department of Law shall engage in the private practice of law during his or her term of appointment. Attorneys at law under independent contract to the Department of Law may engage in the private practice of law even though they may have been appointed or designated either specially or generally as assistant attorneys general or attorneys. Notwithstanding that any attorney at law under independent contract to the Department of Law has been appointed or designated either specially or generally as an assistant attorney general and thus is identified with the State of Georgia as its representative for cases arising within the scope of that appointment or designation, representation of a defendant in criminal proceedings by that assistant attorney general shall not constitute a conflict of interest if that assistant attorney general provides written disclosure of such appointment or designation to the defendant prior to accepting employment by that defendant or, when a court has appointed an assistant attorney general to represent an indigent criminal defendant, disclosures to the defendant and to the court, to be reflected in the record of that court, such appointment or designation as assistant attorney general.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-74, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
