# § 31-5-9. Injunctions for enjoining violations of the provisions of this title; supersedeas; attachment for contempt; injunctions to abate public nuisances; where actions may be instituted

(a) The Department of Public Health and all county boards of health and the Department of Community Health, as appropriate, are empowered to institute appropriate proceedings for injunction in the courts of competent jurisdiction in this state for the purpose of enjoining a violation of any provision of this title as now existing or as may be hereafter amended or of any regulation or order duly issued by the department, any county board of health, or the Department of Community Health provided that this Code section shall not apply to violations of the provisions of Chapter 20 of this title. The department, the county boards of health, and the Department of Community Health, as appropriate, are also empowered to maintain action for injunction to abate any public nuisance which is injurious to the public health, safety, or comfort. Such actions may be maintained notwithstanding the fact that such violation also constitutes a crime and notwithstanding that other adequate remedies at law exist. Such actions may be instituted in the name of the department, any county board, or the Department of Community Health, as the case may be, in the county in which a violation of any provision of this title occurs. For purposes of this Code section, the county boards of health are declared to be legal entities capable of maintaining actions in their respective names without naming the individuals constituting such board, or acting on behalf of the department, as the case may be.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Code Section 5-6-13, an appeal or a notice of intent to appeal an adjudication of contempt of court of a party subject to an interlocutory or final judgment in a court action for an injunction instituted under authority of this Code section for a violation of a licensing requirement of this title shall not operate as a supersedeas unless it is so ordered by the court; provided, however, that the court may grant a supersedeas in such a case after making a finding that the health, safety, or welfare of the recipients of the services will not be substantially harmed by the issuance of the stay.
(c) Unless otherwise ordered by the court pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, an interlocutory or final judgment in an action granting an injunction under this Code section may be enforced by attachment for contempt.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 5-10, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
