# § 31-18-4. Duties of commission

(a) The Brain and Spinal Injury Trust Fund Commission, which is administratively assigned to the Department of Public Health, shall establish procedures whereby a person with a traumatic brain or spinal cord injury for whom a report is made pursuant to this chapter shall be informed of appropriate agencies, departments, hospitals, facilities, organizations, or individuals providing rehabilitative, independent living, and other services or goods.
(b) The Brain and Spinal Injury Trust Fund Commission shall maintain records of reports and notifications made under this chapter. The Brain and Spinal Injury Trust Fund Commission shall produce an annual report relating to information and data collected pursuant to this chapter and shall make such report available upon request. Such report shall be submitted annually no later than October 1 to the Office of Health Strategy and Coordination.
(c) Statistical information collected under this chapter shall be available to any other federal or state agency or private organization concerned with traumatic brain or spinal cord injuries, but no names or addresses will be provided without the consent of the person with the traumatic brain or spinal cord injury or the consent of the immediate family or guardian of such person if that person is unable to consent.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 41,§ 2-13, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 31, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 478,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 824, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
