# § 9-13-8. Issuance of alias execution to replace lost original

(a) When an execution which was regularly issued from a court is lost or destroyed, the judge or justice of the court from which the same was issued may at any time, upon proper application and proof of the facts by the affidavit of the applicant, his agent, or his attorney or by any other satisfactory proof, grant an order for the issuing of an alias execution in lieu of the lost original execution. The alias execution shall have all the legal force and effect of the lost or destroyed original execution.
(b) When an execution which was regularly issued by an officer of the state as authorized by law is lost or destroyed, the state officer or the successor to the state officer by whom the same was issued may at any time issue an alias execution in lieu of the lost original execution. The alias execution shall be dated the same date as the original execution and the officer shall endorse the word "alias" on the alias execution. The alias execution shall have all the legal force and effect of the lost or destroyed original execution.
(c) When an execution which was regularly issued by an officer of a county or local government as authorized by law is lost or destroyed, the judge of the probate court of the county in which the original execution was issued may issue an alias execution upon the filing by the party having the right to control the original execution of a statement under oath of the loss or destruction of such original execution. The judge shall endorse the word "alias" on the alias execution. The alias execution shall have all the legal force and effect of the lost or destroyed original execution.
