# § 4-11-9-5. Failure to respond; right to hearing; care; crime exception

(a) If the owner of an animal impounded pursuant to this article fails to respond in writing within five business days of the date the notice of impoundment was served, or, if the owner is unknown or could not be found within 30 days of publication of the notice of impoundment, the impounded animal may be disposed of pursuant to Code Section 4-11-9.6.
(b)
  (1) If the owner of an animal impounded pursuant to this article refuses to enter into a consent agreement with the government agency having custody of the animal that such animal will be given humane care and adequate and necessary veterinary care, the owner may request, in writing, a hearing within five business days of the date the notice of impoundment was served on such owner, or, if the owner is unknown or could not be found, within 30 days of the date of publication of the notice of impoundment. Such request for hearing shall be served upon the government agency having custody of the animal. If no hearing is requested within the time limits specified in this paragraph and the failure to request such hearing is due in whole or in part to the reasonably avoidable fault of the owner, the right to a hearing shall have been waived.
  (2) Within 30 days after receiving a written request for a hearing, the government agency having custody of the animal shall hold a hearing as is provided in Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." If the animal is in the custody of an agency of local government which has, by local law or ordinance, established a procedure for hearing such matters, the body designated in such local law or ordinance shall conduct the hearing required by this Code section. If the local government does not have a hearing procedure, the government agency having custody of the animal may refer the matter to the Office of State Administrative Hearings. If the animal is in the custody of the Department of Agriculture, the Commissioner or his or her designee shall conduct the hearing. The hearing shall be public and all testimony shall be received under oath. A record of the proceedings at such hearing shall be made and maintained by the hearing officer as provided in Code Section 50-13-13.
  (3) The scope of the hearing shall be limited to whether the impounding of the animal was authorized by subsection (c) of Code Section 4-11-9.2.
  (4) The hearing officer shall, within five business days after such hearing, forward a decision to the person who impounded the animal and the government agency having custody of the animal.
  (5) If the hearing officer finds that the animal was improperly impounded, the animal shall be returned to the owner and the cost incurred in providing reasonable care and treatment for the animal from the date of impoundment to the date of the order shall be paid by the impounding agency.
  (6) If the hearing officer finds that the animal was lawfully impounded, the hearing officer may:
    (A) Recommend that the government agency having custody of the animal dispose of the animal as provided in Code Section 4-11-9.6; or
    (B) Unless, in a prior administrative or legal action in this state or any other state, the owner has been found to have failed to provide humane care to an animal, committed cruelty to animals, engaged in dog fighting, committed an act prohibited under Code Section 16-12-4, committed an act prohibited under Code Section 16-12-37, or committed an act in violation of any similar local ordinance or regulation, the laws of this state, or of the United States, or any of the several states, recommend conditions under which the animal may, upon payment by the owner of all costs of impoundment and care, be returned to the owner. Such conditions shall be reduced to writing and served upon the owner and the government agency having custody of the animal. Such conditions may include, but are not limited to, the following, that:
      (i) Such animal shall be given humane care and adequate and necessary veterinary services;
      (ii) Such animal shall not be subjected to mistreatment; and
      (iii) The owner shall comply with this article.
(c) The provisions of this Code section shall not apply to an animal that was an object or instrumentality of a crime nor shall any such animal be returned to the owner or disposed of without the approval of the prosecuting attorney.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 348,§ 4, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 408,§ 2-3, eff. 5/6/2008.
