# § 4-11-32. Prohibited acts; applicability

(a)
  (1) A person commits an offense if, without the consent of the owner, the person acquires or otherwise exercises control over an animal facility, an animal from an animal facility, or other property from an animal facility with the intent to deprive the owner of such facility, animal, or property and to disrupt or damage the enterprise conducted at the animal facility.
  (2) A person commits an offense if, without the consent of the owner, the person acquires or otherwise exercises control over a crop facility, a crop from a crop facility, or other property from a crop facility with the intent to deprive the owner of such facility, crop, or property and to disrupt or damage the enterprise conducted at the crop facility.
(b)
  (1) A person commits an offense if, without the consent of the owner, the person damages or destroys an animal facility or damages, frees, or destroys any animal or property in or on an animal facility with the intent to disrupt or damage the enterprise conducted at the animal facility and the damage or loss thereto exceeds $500.00.
  (2) A person commits an offense if, without the consent of the owner, the person damages or destroys a crop facility or damages or destroys any crop or property in or on a crop facility with the intent to disrupt or damage the enterprise conducted at the crop facility and the damage or loss thereto exceeds $500.00.
(c)
  (1) A person commits an offense if, without the consent of the owner, the person damages or destroys an animal facility or damages, frees, or destroys any animal or property in or on an animal facility and the damage or loss thereto is $500.00 or less or enters or remains on an animal facility with the intent to disrupt or damage the enterprise conducted at the animal facility, and the person:
    (A) Had notice that the entry was forbidden;
    (B) Knew or should have known that the animal facility was or had closed to the public; or
    (C) Received notice to depart but failed to do so.
  (2) For purposes of this subsection "notice" means:
    (A) Oral or written communication by the owner or someone with actual or apparent authority to act for the owner;
    (B) The presence of fencing or other type of enclosure or barrier designed to exclude intruders or to contain animals; or
    (C) A sign or signs posted on the property or at the entrance to the building, reasonably likely to come to the attention of intruders, indicating that entry is forbidden.
(c.1)
  (1) A person commits an offense if, without the consent of the owner, the person damages or destroys a crop facility or damages or destroys any crop or property in or on a crop facility and the damage or loss thereto is $500.00 or less or enters or remains on a crop facility with the intent to disrupt or damage the enterprise conducted at the crop facility, and the person:
    (A) Had notice that the entry was forbidden;
    (B) Knew or should have known that the crop facility was or had closed to the public; or
    (C) Received notice to depart but failed to do so.
  (2) For purposes of this subsection "notice" means:
    (A) Oral or written communication by the owner or someone with actual or apparent authority to act for the owner; or
    (B) A sign or signs posted on the property or at the entrance to the building, reasonably likely to come to the attention of intruders, indicating that entry is forbidden.
(d) This Code section shall not apply to, affect, or otherwise prohibit actions taken by the Department of Agriculture, any other federal, state, or local department or agency, or any official, employee, or agent thereof while in the exercise or performance of any power or duty imposed by law or by rule and regulation.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 286, § 3, eff. 7/1/2001.
