# § 17-12-25. Salary of public defender; private practice prohibited

(a) Each circuit public defender shall receive an annual salary equal to the annual salary of a district attorney and shall receive any cost-of-living adjustments that may be given by the General Assembly in the General Appropriations Act for which district attorneys are eligible. Any increase granted pursuant to this subsection shall become effective at the same time that funds are made available for the increase for such employees. Each circuit public defender may also be entitled to an accountability court salary supplement as set forth in Code Section 17-12-25.1.
(b) The county or counties comprising the judicial circuit may supplement the salary of the circuit public defender in an amount as is or may be authorized by local Act or in an amount as may be determined by the governing authority of the county or counties, whichever is greater.
(c) No circuit public defender shall engage in the private practice of law for profit or serve concurrently in any judicial office.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 780,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 138,§ 1-7, eff. only if funds are appropriated for purposes of Part I of this Act in an appropriations Act enacted at the 2015 regular session of the General Assembly.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-18, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 729,§ 32, eff. 7/1/2008.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 32, § 1, eff. 1/1/2005.
