# § 17-12-11. Mental health advocacy division; duties, responsibilities, and management

(a) The mental health advocacy division shall represent in any court in this state indigent persons found not guilty by reason of insanity at the time of the crime or found mentally incompetent to stand trial and shall be the successor to the office of mental health advocacy created by Article 4 of this chapter as it existed on June 30, 2008. Any assets or resources of the office of mental health advocacy shall be transferred to the council. The mental health advocacy division office shall serve all counties of this state.
(b) Whenever any person has been found not guilty by reason of insanity at the time of the crime pursuant to Code Section 17-7-131 or found mentally incompetent to stand trial pursuant to Code Section 17-7-130 and has been determined to be an indigent person, the court in which such case is pending shall notify the mental health advocacy division, and the division may assume the defense and representation of such person in all matters pursuant to Code Sections 17-7-130 and 17-7-131, as applicable, if the resources, funding, and staffing of the division allow; provided, however, that the circuit public defender or other attorney who represented the indigent person at the time of the finding of not guilty by reason of insanity at the time of the crime or the finding of mentally incompetent to stand trial shall have the option to retain responsibility for the representation of any such person.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall prevent the circuit public defender, the court, or the court appointed attorney from requesting the participation of the mental health advocacy division prior to a finding of not guilty by reason of insanity at the time of the crime or a finding of mentally incompetent to stand trial. The circuit public defender, the court, or the court appointed attorney may request that the mental health advocacy division assist in the case prior to a plea being entered and accepted by the court.
(d) If for any reason the mental health advocacy division is unable to represent any indigent person found not guilty by reason of insanity at the time of the crime or found mentally incompetent to stand trial, such representation shall be provided as otherwise provided by law.
(e) The director shall be responsible for management of the mental health advocacy division; provided, however, that the director may delegate day-to-day operations of the division to the mental health advocate.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 729,§ 25, eff. 7/1/2008.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 32, § 1, eff. 12/31/2003.
