# § 17-12-25.1. Accountability court supplement

(a) Whenever a circuit has implemented a drug court division, mental health court division, or veterans court division, then on and after January 1, 2016, the state shall pay the circuit public defender in such circuit an annual accountability court supplement of $6,000.00. Such supplement shall be paid from state funds by the Georgia Public Defender Council in equal monthly installments as regular compensation.
(b) Notwithstanding Code Sections 17-12-27 and 17-12-28, the accountability court salary supplement paid pursuant to this Code section shall not be included in any calculation of compensation paid to assistant circuit public defenders or investigators that is measured as a percentage of a circuit public defender's salary.
(c) When a local law provides for a salary to be paid based on a percentage of, total compensation for, or similar mathematical relationship to a circuit public defender's salary, the accountability court salary supplement paid pursuant to this Code section shall not be included in the calculation of compensation to be paid by a county, municipality, or consolidated government.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of Code Section 17-12-25 and Code Section 17-12-30, on and after January 1, 2016, no county or counties comprising the circuit shall increase an aggregate county salary supplement paid to the circuit public defender or a state-paid position appointed pursuant to this article, if such supplement is $50,000.00 or more.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 17, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 138,§ 1-8, eff. 7/1/2015.
