# § 17-12-12.1. Payment of attorney in event of conflict of interest in capital cases; number of attorneys appointed; county governing authority's financial responsibility; expenses

(a) If there is a conflict of interest such that the Georgia capital defender division is unable to defend any indigent person accused of a capital felony for which the death penalty is being sought, the director shall determine and appoint counsel to represent the defendant. The director shall establish the contractual agreement with the defendant's counsel for payment of representing the defendant, and, when feasible and prudent, a flat fee structure shall be utilized.
(b) A maximum of two attorneys shall be paid by the council pursuant to a contractual agreement or at an hourly rate established by the council with state funds appropriated to the council. State funds shall be appropriated to the council for use by the Georgia capital defender division for the first $150,000.00 paid for each death penalty case. Funding for attorney's fees and expenses between $150,000.01 and $250,000.00 for each death penalty case shall be paid through state appropriations for 75 percent of such attorney's fees and expenses, and the county governing authority where the indictment was returned shall pay 25 percent of such attorney's fees and expenses. Funding for all attorney's fees and expenses in excess of $250,000.00 for each death penalty case shall be paid through state appropriations for 50 percent of such attorney's fees and expenses, and the county governing authority where the indictment was returned shall pay 50 percent of such attorney's fees and expenses.
(c) The council, with the assistance of the Georgia capital defender division, shall establish guidelines for all expense requests for cases in which the death penalty is sought, including, but not limited to, attorney's fees, expert witness fees, investigative fees, travel and accommodation expenses, and copy and transcription costs.
(d) A county governing authority may provide supplemental compensation to counsel appointed pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 729,§ 27, eff. 7/1/2008.
