# § 17-12-30. Classification of personnel; responsibilities; compensation; local supplements

(a) All state paid personnel employed by the circuit public defenders pursuant to this article shall be employees of the executive branch of state government and shall be in the unclassified service as defined by Code Section 45-20-2.
(b) Personnel employed by the circuit public defenders pursuant to this article shall have the authority, duties, powers, and responsibilities as are authorized by law or as assigned by the circuit public defender and shall serve at the pleasure of the circuit public defender.
(c)
  (1) The council shall establish salary ranges for each state paid position authorized by this article or any other provision of law. Salary ranges shall be similar to the state-wide and senior executive ranges adopted pursuant to the rules of the State Personnel Board and shall provide for minimum, midpoint, and maximum salaries not to exceed the maximum allowable salary. In establishing the salary ranges, all amounts will be rounded off to the nearest whole dollar. The council may, from time to time, revise the salary ranges to include across-the-board increases which the General Assembly may from time to time authorize in the General Appropriations Act.
  (2) The circuit public defender shall fix the compensation of each state paid employee appointed pursuant to this article in accordance with the job to which the person is appointed and the appropriate salary range.
  (3) All salary advancements shall be based on quality of work, training, and performance. The salary of state paid personnel appointed pursuant to this article may be increased at the first of the calendar month following the annual anniversary of the person's appointment. No employee's salary shall be advanced beyond the maximum established in the applicable pay range.
  (4) Any reduction in salary shall be made in accordance with the salary range for the position and the policies adopted by the council.
  (5) The compensation of state paid personnel appointed pursuant to this article shall be paid in equal installments by the council as provided by this subsection from funds appropriated for such purpose. The council may authorize employees compensated pursuant to this Code section to participate in voluntary salary deductions as provided by Article 3 of Chapter 7 of Title 45.
  (6) The governing authority of the county or counties comprising a judicial circuit may supplement the salary or fringe benefits of any state paid position appointed pursuant to this article.
  (7) The governing authority of any municipality within the judicial circuit may, with the approval of the circuit public defender, supplement the salary or fringe benefits of any state paid position appointed pursuant to this article.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-20, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 51,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 22,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2007.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 32, § 1, eff. 1/1/2005.
