# § 17-12-10.1. Legislative oversight committee created; membership; audits

(a) There is created the Legislative Oversight Committee for the Georgia Public Defender Council which shall be composed of eight persons: three members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, three members of the Senate appointed by the Senate Committee on Assignments or such person or entity as established by Senate rule, and one member of the House of Representatives and one member of the Senate appointed by the Governor. The members of such committee shall be selected within ten days after the convening of the General Assembly in each odd-numbered year and shall serve until their successors are appointed.
(b) The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint a member of such committee to serve as chairperson, and the Senate Committee on Assignments or such person or entity as established by Senate rule shall appoint one member of the committee to serve as vice chairperson during each even-numbered year. The Senate Committee on Assignments or such person or entity as established by Senate rule shall appoint a member of such committee to serve as chairperson, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint one member to serve as vice chairperson during each odd-numbered year. Such committee shall meet at least once each year and, upon the call of the chairperson, at such additional times as deemed necessary by the chairperson.
(c) It shall be the duty of such committee to review and evaluate:
  (1) Information on new programs submitted by the council;
  (2) Information on policies proposed by the council;
  (3) The strategic plans for the council;
  (4) Program evaluation reports and budget recommendations of the council;
  (5) The fiscal impact of fees and fines on counties;
  (6) The reports submitted pursuant to Code Section 15-21A-7 in order to identify, among other things, opportunities to reduce or consolidate fees, fines, and surcharges; and
  (7) Such other information or reports as deemed necessary by such committee.
(d) The council and director shall cooperate with such committee and provide such information or reports as requested by the committee for the performance of its functions.
(e) The council shall submit its budget estimate to the director of the Office of Planning and Budget in accordance with subsection (a) of Code Section 45-12-78.
(f) The members of such committee shall receive the allowances authorized for legislative members of legislative committees. The funds necessary to pay such allowances shall come from funds appropriated to the House of Representatives and the Senate.
(g) The legislative oversight committee shall be authorized to request that a performance audit of the council be conducted.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 74,§ 7-9, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 51,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 729,§ 23, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 22,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2007.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 32, § 1, eff. 12/31/2003.
