# § 14-3-1202. Sale or other disposition of assets other than in usual course of activities

(a) A corporation may sell, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of all, or substantially all, of its property (with or without the good will) other than in the usual and regular course of its activities on the terms and conditions and for the consideration determined by the corporation's board if the proposed transaction is authorized by subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) Unless this chapter, the articles, the bylaws, or the board of directors or members (acting pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section) require a greater vote or voting by class, the proposed transaction to be authorized must be approved:
  (1) By the board;
  (2) By the members by two-thirds of the votes cast or a majority of the voting power, whichever is less; and
  (3) In writing by any person or persons whose approval is required by a provision of the articles authorized by Code Section 14-3-1030 for an amendment to the articles or bylaws.
(c) If the corporation does not have members, the transaction must be approved by a vote of a majority of the directors in office at the time the transaction is approved. In addition, the corporation shall provide notice of any directors' meeting at which such approval is to be obtained in accordance with subsection (b) of Code Section 14-3-822. The notice must also state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider the sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition of all, or substantially all, of the property or assets of the corporation and contain or be accompanied by a copy or summary of a description of the transaction.
(d) The board may condition its submission of the proposed transaction, and the members may condition their approval of the transaction, on receipt of a higher percentage of affirmative votes or on any other basis.
(e) If the corporation seeks to have the transaction approved by the members at a membership meeting, the corporation shall give notice to its members of the proposed membership meeting in accordance with Code Section 14-3-704. The notice must also state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider the sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition of all, or substantially all, of the property or assets of the corporation and contain or be accompanied by a copy or summary of a description of the transaction.
(f) If the board needs to have the transaction approved by the members by written consent or written ballot, the material soliciting the approval shall contain or be accompanied by a copy or summary of a description of the transaction.
(g) A charitable corporation must give written notice to the Attorney General 30 days before it sells, leases, exchanges, or otherwise disposes of all, or substantially all, of its property if the transaction is not in the usual and regular course of its activities, unless said transaction is with another charitable corporation.
(h) After a sale, lease, exchange, or other disposition of property is authorized, the transaction may be abandoned, subject to any contractual rights, without further action by the members or any other person who approved the transaction in accordance with the procedure set forth in the resolution proposing the transaction or, if none is set forth, in the manner determined by the board of directors.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
