# § 14-3-1006. Restated articles of incorporation

(a) A corporation's board of directors may restate its articles of incorporation at any time with or without approval by members or any other person.
(b) The restatement may include one or more amendments to the articles. If the restatement includes an amendment requiring approval by the members or any other person, it must be adopted as provided in Code Section 14-3-1003, 14-3-1030, or 14-3-1041.
(c) If the board seeks to have the restatement approved by the members at a membership meeting, the corporation shall notify each of its members of the proposed membership meeting in writing in accordance with Code Section 14-3-704. The notice must also state that the purpose, or one of the purposes, of the meeting is to consider the proposed restatement and contain or be accompanied by a copy of the restatement that identifies any amendments or other change it would make in the articles or contain or be accompanied by a full and complete summary of any such amendment or other change.
(d) If the board seeks to have the restatement approved by the members by written consent or written ballot, the material soliciting the approval shall contain or be accompanied by a copy of the restatement that identifies any amendments or other change it would make in the articles or contain or be accompanied by a full and complete summary of any such amendment or other change.
(e) A corporation restating its articles of incorporation shall deliver to the Secretary of State for filing articles of restatement setting forth the name of the corporation and the text of the restated articles of incorporation, including or accompanied by a certificate setting forth the following information:
  (1) Whether the restatement contains an amendment to the articles requiring approval by the members or any other person other than the board of directors and, if it does not, that the board of directors adopted the restatement;
  (2) If the restatement contains an amendment to the articles requiring approval by the members, the information required by Code Section 14-3-1005; and
  (3) If the restatement contains an amendment to the articles requiring approval by a person whose approval is required pursuant to Code Sections 14-3-1030 and 14-3-1041, a statement that such approval was obtained.
(f) Duly adopted restated articles of incorporation supersede the original articles of incorporation and all amendments to them.
(g) The Secretary of State may certify restated articles of incorporation, as the articles of incorporation currently in effect, without including any certificate filed pursuant to subsection (e) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 46, eff. 7/1/2004.
