# § 14-3-702. Special meetings; remote communication

(a) A membership corporation shall hold a special meeting of members:
  (1) On call of its board or the person or persons authorized to do so by the articles or bylaws; or
  (2) If the holders of at least 5 percent of the voting power of the corporation, or such other amount as the articles of incorporation or bylaws shall specify (but such articles or bylaws shall not require more than 25 percent as a minimum of the voting power), sign, date, and deliver to any corporate officer one or more demands in writing or by electronic transmission for the meeting describing the purpose or purposes for which it is to be held.
(b) If not otherwise fixed under Code Section 14-3-703 or Code Section 14-3-706, the record date for determining members entitled to demand a special meeting is the date the first member signs the demand.
(c) If a notice for a special meeting demanded under paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section is not given pursuant to Code Section 14-3-704 within 30 days after the date the demand or demands in writing or by electronic transmission are delivered to a corporate officer, regardless of the requirements of subsection (d) of this Code section, a person signing the demand or demands may set the time and place of the meeting and give notice pursuant to Code Section 14-3-704.
(d)
  (1) Except as provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, special meetings of members may be held in or out of this state at the place stated in or fixed in accordance with the bylaws. If no place is stated or fixed in accordance with the bylaws, special meetings shall be held at the corporation's principal office or other suitable place.
  (2) Unless the articles of incorporation or the bylaws provide otherwise, the board of directors may determine that a special meeting of members be held wholly or partially by means of remote communication as authorized by Code Section 14-3-709.
(e) Only those matters that are within the purpose or purposes described in the meeting notice required by Code Section 14-3-704 may be conducted at a special meeting of members.
(f) Unless otherwise provided in the articles, a demand by a member for a special meeting may be revoked in writing or by electronic transmission by the member if such revocation is received by the corporation prior to the call of the special meeting.
(g) A bylaw provision governing the voting power required to call special meetings is not a quorum or voting requirement.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 37,§ 5, eff. 4/29/2021.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 31, eff. 7/1/2004.
