# § 14-3-813. Appointment of provisional director in case of deadlock

(a) If the directors of a corporation are deadlocked in the management of the corporate affairs and the members are unable to break the deadlock and if injury to the corporation is being suffered or is threatened by reason thereof, the superior court may, notwithstanding any provisions of the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the corporation to the contrary and whether or not an action is pending for an involuntary dissolution of the corporation, appoint a provisional director pursuant to this Code section.
(b) Action for such appointment may be filed by one-half of the directors or by members holding not less than one-third of all the votes entitled to be cast in an election of directors. Notice of such action shall be served upon the directors, other than those who have filed the action, and upon the corporation in the manner provided by law for service of a summons and complaint, and a hearing shall be held not less than ten days after such service is effected. At such hearing all interested persons shall be given an opportunity to be heard.
(c) The provisional director shall be an impartial person who is neither a member nor a creditor of the corporation nor related by consanguinity or affinity within the third degree, as computed according to the civil law, to any of the other directors of the corporation or to any judge of the court by which he or she is appointed. The provisional director shall have all the rights and powers of a director and shall be entitled to notice of the meetings of the board of directors and to vote at such meetings until he or she is removed by order of the court or by vote or written consent of a majority of the directors or of members holding a majority of the votes entitled to be cast in an election of directors. He or she shall be entitled to receive such compensation as may be agreed upon between him or her and the corporation, and, in the absence of such agreement, he or she shall be entitled to such compensation as shall be fixed by the court.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, §§ 66, 67, eff. 7/1/2004.
