# § 14-3-720. Membership list for meeting

(a) After fixing a record date for a meeting, a corporation shall prepare an alphabetical list of the names of all its members who are entitled to notice of the meeting. The list must show the address of and number of votes each member is entitled to vote at the meeting. Nothing contained in this Code section shall require the corporation to include email addresses or other information for delivery of electronic transmissions on such list.
(b) The list of members must be available for inspection by any member for the purpose of communication with other members concerning the meeting, beginning two business days after notice is given of the meeting for which the list was prepared and continuing through the meeting:
  (1) on a reasonably accessible electronic network, provided that the information required to gain access to such list is provided with the notice of the meeting or upon request or
  (2) during ordinary business hours at the corporation's principal office or at a reasonable place identified in the meeting notice in the city where the meeting will be held. In the event that the corporation makes the list available on an electronic network, the corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to members of the corporation. A member, a member's agent, or a member's attorney is entitled on written demand to inspect and, subject to the limitations of subsection (c) of Code Section 14-3-1602 and Code Section 14-3-1605, to copy the list, at a reasonable time and at the member's expense, during the period it is available for inspection.
(c) The corporation shall make the list of members available at the meeting, and any member, member's agent, or member's attorney is entitled to inspect the list at any time during the meeting or any adjournment. If the meeting is to be held wholly or partially by means of remote communication, then the list shall be open to the examination of any member, member's agent, or member's attorney during the duration of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access such list shall be provided with the notice of the meeting. In the event that the corporation makes the list available on an electronic network, the corporation may take reasonable steps to ensure that such information is available only to members of the corporation or their agents or attorneys.
(d) If the corporation refuses to allow a member, a member's agent, or a member's attorney to inspect or copy the list of members before or at the meeting (as permitted by subsection (b) of this Code section), the superior court, on application of the member, may summarily order the inspection or copying at the corporation's expense; postpone the meeting for which the list was prepared until the inspection or copying is complete; order the corporation to pay the member's costs, including reasonable attorney's fees, incurred to obtain the order; and order other appropriate relief.
(e) Refusal or failure to prepare or make available the members' list does not affect the validity of action taken at the meeting.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 36, eff. 7/1/2004.
