# § 14-3-727. Validity of signature on proxy

(a) If the name signed on a vote, consent, waiver, or proxy appointment corresponds to the name of a member, the corporation if acting in good faith is entitled to accept the vote, consent, waiver, or proxy appointment and give it effect as the act of the member.
(b) If the name signed on a vote, consent, waiver, or proxy appointment does not correspond to the record name of a member, the corporation if acting in good faith is nevertheless entitled to accept the vote, consent, waiver, or proxy appointment and give it effect as the act of the member if:
  (1) The member is an entity and the name signed purports to be that of an officer or agent of the entity;
  (2) The name signed purports to be that of an attorney in fact of the member and, if the corporation requests, evidence acceptable to the corporation of the signatory's authority to sign for the member has been presented with respect to the vote, consent, waiver, or proxy appointment;
  (3) Two or more persons hold the membership as cotenants or fiduciaries and the name signed purports to be the name of at least one of the coholders and the person signing appears to be acting on behalf of all the coholders;
  (4) The name signed purports to be that of an administrator, executor, guardian, or conservator representing the member and, if the corporation requests, evidence of fiduciary status acceptable to the corporation has been presented with respect to the vote, consent, waiver, or proxy appointment; or
  (5) The name signed purports to be that of a receiver or trustee in bankruptcy of the member, and, if the corporation requests, evidence of this status acceptable to the corporation has been presented with respect to the vote, consent, waiver, or proxy appointment.
(c) The corporation is entitled to reject a vote, consent, waiver, or proxy appointment if the secretary or other officer or agent authorized to tabulate votes, acting in good faith, has reasonable basis for doubt about the validity of the signature on it or about the signatory's authority to sign for the member or about the faithfulness or completeness of the reproduction when the original has not been examined.
(d) The corporation and its officer or agent who accept or reject a vote, consent, waiver, or proxy appointment in good faith and in accordance with the standards of this Code section or subsection (b) of Code Section 14-3-724 are not liable in damages to the member for the consequences of the acceptance or rejection.
(e) Corporate action based on the acceptance or rejection of a vote, consent, waiver, or proxy appointment under this Code section or subsection (b) of Code Section 14-3-724 is valid unless a court of competent jurisdiction determines otherwise.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 38, eff. 7/1/2004.
