# § 14-3-701. Annual meeting and regular meetings

(a) A membership corporation shall hold a meeting of members annually at a time stated in or fixed in accordance with the bylaws.
(b) A membership corporation may hold regular meetings of members at the times stated in or fixed in accordance with the bylaws.
(c)
  (1) Except as provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, annual and regular meetings of members may be held in or out of this state at the place stated in or fixed in accordance with the bylaws. If no place is stated in or fixed in accordance with the bylaws, annual and regular meetings shall be held at the corporation's principal office or other suitable place.
  (2) Unless the articles of incorporation or the bylaws provide otherwise, the board of directors may determine that an annual and regular meeting of the members may be held wholly or partially by means of remote communication as authorized and provided for in Code Section 14-3-709.
(d) At the annual meeting:
  (1) The chief executive officer and chief financial officer shall report on the activities and financial condition of the corporation; and
  (2) The members shall consider and act upon such other matters as may be raised consistent with the notice requirements of Code Sections 14-3-704 and 14-3-705.
(e) At regular meetings the members shall consider and act upon such matters as may be raised consistent with the notice requirements of Code Sections 14-3-704 and 14-3-705.
(f) The failure to hold an annual or regular meeting at a time stated in or fixed in accordance with a corporation's bylaws does not affect the validity of any corporate action.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 37,§ 4, eff. 4/29/2021.
