# § 14-3-503. Resignation of registered agent

(a) A registered agent may resign his or her agency appointment by signing and delivering to the Secretary of State for filing a statement of resignation. The statement may include a statement that the registered office is also discontinued.
(b) On or before the date of the filing of the statement of resignation, the registered agent shall deliver or mail a written notice of the agent's intention to resign to the chief executive officer, chief financial officer, or secretary of the corporation or the foreign corporation, as named and at the address shown in the annual registration or in the articles of incorporation if no annual registration has been filed.
(c) The agency appointment is terminated, and the registered office discontinued if so provided, on the earlier of the filing by the corporation or the foreign corporation of an amendment to its annual registration designating a new registered agent and registered office if also discontinued or the thirty-first day after the date on which the statement was filed.
(d) When a statement of resignation takes effect, the person who resigned ceases to have responsibility under this chapter for any matter thereafter tendered to it as registered agent for the corporation or the foreign corporation. The resignation does not affect any contractual rights the corporation or the foreign corporation has against the registered agent or that the registered agent has against the corporation or the foreign corporation.
(e) A registered agent may resign with respect to a corporation or a foreign corporation regardless of whether the corporation or the foreign corporation is entitled at the time to a certificate of existence or authority under Code Section 14-3-128.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 68, eff. 7/1/2004.
