# § 14-3-1104.1. Required filing of notice of merger

(a) Together with the articles or certificate of merger, the surviving corporation or entity shall deliver to the Secretary of State an undertaking which may appear in the articles or certificate of merger or be set forth in a letter or other instrument executed by an officer or any person authorized to act on behalf of such corporation or entity that the request for publication of a notice of filing the articles or certificate of merger and payment therefor will be made as required by subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) No later than the next business day after filing the articles or certificate of merger, the surviving corporation or entity shall mail or deliver to the publisher of a newspaper which is the official organ of the county where the registered office of the surviving corporation or entity is to be located, if the surviving corporation or entity will be required to maintain a registered office in Georgia, or where the registered office of the merging corporation or entity was located prior to the merger in any other case, or which is a newspaper of general circulation published within such county whose most recently published annual statement of ownership and circulation reflects a minimum of 60 percent paid circulation a request to publish a notice in substantially the following form: "NOTICE OF MERGER Notice is given that articles or a certificate of merger which will effect a merger by and between (or among) __________________ (name and state of incorporation or organization of each constituent corporation or entity) will be delivered to the Secretary of State for filing in accordance with the Georgia Nonprofit Corporation Code. The name of the surviving corporation (or other entity) in the merger will be __________________, a corporation (or other entity) incorporated (organized pursuant to the laws of) in the State of __________________. The registered office of such corporation (name of type of entity) (is) (will be) located at __________________ (address of registered office) and its registered (agent) (agents) at such address (is) (are) __________________ (name or names of agent or agents)."The request for publication of the notice shall be accompanied by a check, draft, or money order in the amount of $40.00 in payment of the cost of publication. The notice shall be published once a week for two consecutive weeks commencing within ten days after receipt of the notice by the newspaper. Failure on the part of the surviving corporation or entity to mail or deliver the notice or payment therefor or failure on the part of the newspaper to publish the notice in compliance with this subsection shall not invalidate the merger.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 51, eff. 7/1/2004.
