# § 14-3-1433. Decree of dissolution

(a) If after a hearing the court determines that one or more grounds for judicial dissolution described in Code Section 14-3-1430 exist, it may enter a decree ordering the corporation dissolved, and the clerk of the court shall deliver a certified copy of the decree to the Secretary of State, who shall file it, with the same effect as a notice of intent to dissolve.
(b) After entering the order of dissolution, the court shall direct the winding up and liquidation of the corporation's business and affairs in accordance with Code Section 14-3-1406. Winding up the business of a corporation judicially dissolved may include the corporation's proceeding, after the date of the order of dissolution, (1) in accordance with Code Section 14-3-1407 to notify known claimants, and (2) to mail or deliver, with accompanying payment of the cost of publication, a notice containing the information specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 14-3-1408 for publication. Upon such notice, claims against the dissolved corporation will be limited as specified in Code Sections 14-3-1407 and 14-3-1408 respectively.
(c) When the costs and expenses of dissolution proceedings and all debts, obligations, and liabilities of the corporation have been paid and discharged or provided for and all of its remaining assets distributed or provided for, whether to its members or, for charitable corporations, to another entity described under subsection (a) of Code Section 14-3-1302, or such assets have been deposited with the Office of the State Treasurer as provided in Code Section 14-3-1440, the court shall enter a decree of dissolution, and upon filing of the decree with the Secretary of State, it shall have the same effect as articles of dissolution.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 249, § 5, eff. 7/1/2001.
