# § 14-3-707. Action by written ballot

(a) Unless prohibited or limited by the articles or bylaws, any action that may be taken at any annual, regular, or special meeting of members may be taken without a meeting if the corporation delivers a ballot in writing or by electronic transmission to every member entitled to vote on the matter.
(b) A ballot in writing or by electronic transmission shall:
  (1) Set forth each proposed action;
  (2) Provide an opportunity to vote for, or withhold a vote for, each candidate for election as a director, if any; and
  (3) Provide an opportunity to vote for or against each other proposed action.
(c) Approval by ballot in writing or by electronic transmission pursuant to this Code section shall be valid only when the number of votes cast by ballot equals or exceeds the quorum required to be present at a meeting authorizing the action, and the number of approvals equals or exceeds the number of votes that would be required to approve the matter at a meeting at which the total number of votes cast was the same as the number of votes cast by ballot.
(d) All solicitations for votes by ballot in writing or by electronic transmission shall:
  (1) Indicate the number of responses needed to meet the quorum requirements;
  (2) State the percentage of approvals necessary to approve each matter other than election of directors; and
  (3) Specify the time by which a ballot must be received by the corporation in order to be counted.
(e) Except as otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws, a ballot in writing or by electronic transmission may not be revoked.

## History

Renumbered from § 14-3-708 and amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 35, eff. 7/1/2004.
Renumbered as § 14-3-706 by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
