# § 14-3-859. Applicability of indemnification provisions

(a) A corporation may, by a provision in its articles of incorporation or bylaws or in a resolution adopted or a contract approved by its board of directors or members, obligate itself in advance of the act or omission giving rise to a proceeding to provide indemnification or advance funds to pay for or reimburse expenses consistent with this part. Any such obligatory provision shall be deemed to satisfy the requirements for authorization referred to in subsection (c) of Code Section 14-3-853 or subsection (c) of Code Section 14-3-855. Any such provision existing on July 1, 1991, shall be valid to the extent it does not provide for broader indemnification than is allowed under this part.
(b) Any provision pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall not obligate the corporation to indemnify or advance expenses to a director of a predecessor of the corporation, pertaining to conduct with respect to the predecessor, unless otherwise specifically provided. Any provision for indemnification or advance for expenses in the articles of incorporation, the bylaws, or a resolution of the board of directors, members, shareholders, partners, or, in the case of limited liability companies, members or managers of a predecessor of the corporation or other entity in a merger or in a contract to which the predecessor is a party, existing at the time the merger takes effect, shall be governed by paragraph (3) of Code Section 14-3-1105.
(c) A corporation may, by a provision in its articles of incorporation, limit any of the rights to indemnification or advance for expenses created by or pursuant to this part.
(d) This part does not limit a corporation's power to pay or reimburse expenses incurred by a director or an officer in connection with his or her appearance as a witness in a proceeding at a time when he or she is not a party.
(e) Except as expressly provided in Code Section 14-3-857, this part does not limit a corporation's power to indemnify, advance expenses to, or provide or maintain insurance on behalf of an employee or agent.
(f) Any provision in a corporation's articles of incorporation or bylaws or in a resolution adopted or contract approved by its board of directors or members that obligates the corporation to provide indemnification to the fullest extent permitted by law shall, unless such provision or another provision in the corporation's articles of incorporation or bylaws or in a resolution adopted or a contract approved by its board of directors or members expressly provides otherwise, be deemed to obligate the corporation:
  (1) To advance funds to pay for or reimburse expenses in accordance with Code Section 14-3-853 or subsection (c) of Code Section 14-3-856 to the fullest extent permitted by law; and
  (2) To indemnify directors to the fullest extent permitted in Code Section 14-3-856, provided that such provision is duly authorized as required in subsection (a) of Code Section 14-3-856, and to indemnify officers to the fullest extent permitted in paragraph (2) of subsection (a) and subsection (b) of Code Section 14-3-857.
(g) The provisions of this part may be incorporated by reference into a corporation's articles of incorporation, its bylaws, or a resolution of its members or board of directors. In such case, any such provision shall subsequently be deemed amended to conform with any amendments to this part, unless such provision otherwise expressly provides.

## History

Renumbered from § 14-3-858 and amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 45, eff. 7/1/2004.
