# § 14-3-1409. Articles of dissolution

(a) If a notice of intent to dissolve under Code Section 14-3-1404 has not been revoked, and for charitable corporations after providing the Attorney General 30 days' notice in accordance with subsection (c) of Code Section 14-3-1403, when all known debts, liabilities, and obligations of the corporation have been paid and discharged, or adequate provision made therefor, the corporation may dissolve by delivering to the Secretary of State for filing articles of dissolution setting forth:
  (1) The name of the corporation;
  (2) The date on which a notice of intent to dissolve was filed and a statement that it has not been revoked;
  (3) A statement that all known debts, liabilities, and obligations of the corporation have been paid and discharged, or that adequate provision has been made therefor;
  (4) A statement that all remaining property and assets of the corporation have been distributed in accordance with the plan of dissolution, or that such property and assets have been deposited with the Office of the State Treasurer as provided in Code Section 14-3-1440;
  (5) A statement that there are no actions pending against the corporation in any court, or that adequate provision has been made for the satisfaction of any judgment, order, or decree which may be entered against it in any pending action; and
  (6) A statement that, if required, it notified the Attorney General of its intent to dissolve and has given the Attorney General time to respond in accordance with subsection (c) of Code Section 14-3-1403.
(b) Upon filing of articles of dissolution the corporation shall cease to exist, except for the purpose of actions or other proceedings, which may be brought against the corporation by service upon any of its last executive officers named in its last annual registration, and except for such actions as the members, directors, and officers take to protect any remedy, right, or claim on behalf of the corporation, or to defend, compromise, or settle any claim against the corporation, all of which may proceed in the corporate name.
(c) Deeds or other transfer instruments requiring execution after the dissolution of a corporation may be signed by any two of the last officers or directors of the corporation and shall operate to convey the interest of the corporation in the real estate or other property described.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 249, § 4, eff. 7/1/2001.
