# § 14-3-1422. Reinstatement following administrative dissolution

(a) A corporation administratively dissolved under Code Section 14-3-1421 may apply to the Secretary of State for reinstatement within five years after the effective date of such dissolution. The application shall:
  (1) Recite the name of the corporation and the effective date of its administrative dissolution;
  (2) State that the ground or grounds for dissolution either did not exist or have been eliminated;
  (3) Either be executed by the registered agent or an officer of the corporation, in each case as set forth in the most recent annual registration of the corporation filed with the Secretary of State, or be accompanied by a notarized statement, executed by a person who was an officer, director, or member, or an heir, successor, or assign of a person who was an officer, director, or member, of the corporation at the time that the corporation was administratively dissolved, stating that such person or decedent was an officer, director, or member of the corporation at the time of administrative dissolution and such person has knowledge of and assents to the application for reinstatement;
  (4) Contain a statement by the corporation reciting that all taxes owed by the corporation have been paid; and
  (5) Be accompanied by the fee required for the application for reinstatement contained in Code Section 14-3-122.
(b) The Secretary of State shall reserve the name of a corporation administratively dissolved under Code Section 14-3-1421 for such corporation's specific use for a period of five years after the effective date of the dissolution or until the corporation is reinstated, whichever is sooner.
(c) If the Secretary of State determines that the application contains the information required by subsection (a) of this Code section and that the information is correct, the Secretary of State shall prepare a certificate of reinstatement that recites his or her determination and the effective date of reinstatement, file the original of the certificate, and deliver a copy to the corporation under Code Section 14-3-125.
(d) When the reinstatement is effective, it relates back to and takes effect as of the effective date of the administrative dissolution and the corporation resumes carrying on its business as if the administrative dissolution had never occurred.
(e) This Code section shall apply to all corporations administratively dissolved under Code Section 14-3-1421 or any similar former statute, regardless of the date of dissolution.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 105,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 452,§ 9, eff. 5/6/2008.
