# § 14-3-305. Nonprofit hospital authority; rights; director's role; reporting

(a) As used in this Code section only, the term "nonprofit" means any corporation which is formed, created, or operated by or on behalf of a hospital authority.
(b) Nonprofits shall have all of the rights, powers, benefits, and purposes granted to other corporations under this chapter and shall not be subject to any restrictions contained in Article 4 of Chapter 7 of Title 31, the "Hospital Authorities Law," except as provided in subsections (c) and (d) of this Code section.
(c) A director of a nonprofit shall be subject to the provisions of Code Section 31-7-74.1 with respect to conflicts of interest regarding such nonprofit and the hospital authority which formed, created, or operates such nonprofit, and Code Section 31-7-74.1 shall be deemed to apply to such nonprofit and such hospital authority only for such purpose.
(d) A nonprofit shall be subject to the provisions of Code Section 31-7-90.1 with respect to reporting community benefits provided by such nonprofit and with respect to annual reports by such nonprofit disclosing certain transactions with the nonprofit or with the hospital authority which formed, created, or operates the nonprofit and Code Section 31-7-90.1 shall be deemed to apply to both that nonprofit and that hospital authority only for such purposes.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be deemed or construed to affect in any manner the provisions of Code Section 31-7-75.2, Chapter 14 of Title 50, or Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50 or to change existing law as to whether such statutory provisions are applicable to nonprofits.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 27, eff. 7/1/2004.
