# § 14-3-1404.1. Publication of notice of intent to dissolve

(a) Together with the notice of intent to dissolve provided for in Code Section 14-3-1404, the corporation shall deliver to the Secretary of State a certificate executed by an officer or director of such corporation, or any person undertaking such request on behalf of the corporation, verifying that the request for publication of a notice of intent to voluntarily dissolve the corporation and payment therefor have been made as required by subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) No later than the next business day after filing the notice of intent to dissolve provided for in Code Section 14-3-1404, the corporation shall mail or deliver to the publisher of a newspaper which is the official organ of the county where the registered office of the corporation is located or which is a newspaper of general circulation published within such county whose most recently published annual statement of ownership and circulation reflects a minimum of 60 percent paid circulation a request to publish a notice in substantially the following form: "NOTICE OF INTENT TO VOLUNTARILY DISSOLVE A CORPORATION Notice is given that a notice of intent to dissolve __________________ (name of corporation), a Georgia nonprofit corporation with its registered office at __________________ (address of registered office), will be delivered to the Secretary of State for filing in accordance with the Georgia Nonprofit Corporation Code."The notice may also include the information specified in Code Section 14-3-1408. The request for publication of the notice shall be accompanied by a check, draft, or money order in the amount of $40.00 in payment of the cost of publication. The notice shall be published once a week for two consecutive weeks commencing within ten days after receipt of the notice by the newspaper. Failure on the part of the corporation to mail or deliver the notice or payment therefor or failure on the part of the newspaper to publish the notice in compliance with this subsection shall not invalidate the dissolution of the corporation.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
