# § 14-3-510. Applicable laws; where corporation deemed to reside; corporations with principal office under prior law

(a) Venue in proceedings against a corporation shall be determined in accordance with the pertinent constitutional and statutory provisions of this state in effect as of July 1, 1991, or thereafter.
(b) Each domestic corporation and each foreign corporation authorized to transact business in this state shall be deemed to reside and to be subject to venue as follows:
  (1) In civil proceedings generally, in the county of this state where the corporation maintains its registered office, or if the corporation fails to maintain a registered office, it shall be deemed to reside in the county where its last named registered office or principal office, as shown by the records of the Secretary of State, was maintained;
  (2) In actions based on contracts, in that county in this state where the contract to be enforced was made or is to be performed, if the corporation has an office and transacts business in that county;
  (3) In actions for damages because of torts, wrong, or injury done, in the county where the cause of action originated, if the corporation has an office and transacts business in that county;
  (4) In actions for damages because of torts, wrong, or injury done, in the county where the cause of action originated. If venue is based solely on this paragraph, the defendant shall have the right to remove the action to the county in Georgia where the defendant maintains its principal place of business. A notice of removal shall be filed within 45 days of service of the summons. Upon motion by the plaintiff filed within 45 days of the removal, the court to which the case is removed may remand the case to the original court if it finds that removal is improper under the provisions of this paragraph. Upon the defendant's filing of a notice of removal, the 45 day time period for filing such notice shall be tolled until the remand, the entry of an order by the court determining that the removal is valid, or the expiration of the time period for the plaintiff to file a motion challenging the removal, whichever occurs first; and
  (5) In garnishment proceedings, in the county of this state in which is located the corporate office or place of business where the employee who is the defendant in the main action is employed.
(c) Any residences established by this Code section shall be in addition to, and not in limitation of, any other residence that any domestic corporation or foreign corporation may have by reason of other laws.
(d) Whenever this chapter either requires or permits a proceeding to be brought in the county where the registered office of the corporation is maintained, if the proceeding is against a corporation having a principal office as required under a prior general corporation law, the action or proceeding may be brought in the county where the principal office is located.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 533, § 28, eff. 7/1/2004.
