# § 14-3-840. Required officers; minutes and records; holding more than one office; titles; signing of documents

(a) A corporation shall have a chief executive officer, a secretary, and a chief financial officer, provided that the articles of incorporation or bylaws may designate other titles in lieu of or in addition to chief executive officer or chief financial officer. The corporation may have additional officers as described in its articles or bylaws or appointed by the board of directors in accordance with the articles or bylaws.
(b) A corporation may have an executive director. Unless the corporation's articles or bylaws state otherwise, the executive director shall be an officer of the corporation.
(c) A duly appointed officer may appoint one or more officers or assistant officers if authorized by the articles or bylaws or the board of directors.
(d) The articles, bylaws, or board shall delegate to one of the officers responsibility for preparing minutes of the directors' and members' meetings and for authenticating records of the corporation.
(e) Unless otherwise provided in the articles or bylaws, the same individual may simultaneously hold more than one office in a corporation, except that the offices of chief executive officer and secretary shall not be held by the same individual.
(f) The officers of a corporation may be designated by such titles as may be provided in the articles or the bylaws, and in such case any document required or permitted by any law of this state to be signed by the chief executive officer, secretary, or any other named officer of a corporation may be signed by such officer as may be stated in such document to correspond to the officer so required or permitted to sign.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
