# § 14-3-1411. Revival of corporation after dissolution by expiration of period of duration

(a) A corporation that has been dissolved by the expiration of its period of duration but which has continued in business notwithstanding the expiration may revive its corporate existence by amending its articles of incorporation at any time during a period of ten years immediately following the expiration date fixed by the articles of incorporation, so as to extend its period of duration.
(b) If a corporation whose period of duration has expired has failed to revive its corporate existence within ten years of the expiration date fixed by its articles of incorporation as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, the corporation may thereafter revive its corporate existence by amending its articles of incorporation so as to extend its period of duration at any time during the period beginning ten years and ending 20 years immediately following the expiration date fixed by its articles of incorporation and filing with the Secretary of State an affidavit attested by one or more of its officers or directors, stating as follows:
  (1) That the corporation has continued in business, notwithstanding the expiration of its period of duration, at all times since the expiration date fixed by its articles of incorporation; and
  (2) That the revival will not injure the corporation's members, the corporation's creditors, or the public.
(c) As of the effective date of the amendment of articles of incorporation pursuant to subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section, the corporate existence shall be deemed to have continued without interruption from the former expiration date. If, during the period between expiration and revival, the name of the corporation has been assumed, reserved, or registered by any other person or corporation, the revived corporation shall not engage in business until it has amended its articles of incorporation to change its name.

## History

Renumbered from § 14-3-1410 and amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 260,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2023.
