# § 43-21A-5. Identification, advertisement, or representation of business entries as providers of certain services

(a) A business entity shall not identify, advertise, or represent itself as a provider of industrial hygiene services furnished by certified associate industrial hygienists unless the industrial hygiene services are provided by or under the direct supervision of a certified associate industrial hygienist.
(b) A business entity shall not identify, advertise, or represent itself as a provider of health physics services furnished by certified health physicists unless the health physics services are provided by or under the direct supervision of a certified health physicist.
(c) A business entity shall not identify, advertise, or represent itself as a provider of industrial hygiene services furnished by certified industrial hygienists unless the industrial hygiene services are provided by or under the direct supervision of a certified industrial hygienist.
(d) A business entity shall not identify, advertise, or represent itself as a provider of safety services furnished by certified safety professionals unless the safety services are provided by or under the direct supervision of a certified safety professional.
(e) A business entity shall not identify, advertise, or represent itself as a provider of industrial hygiene or safety services furnished by occupational health and safety technologists unless the industrial hygiene or safety services are provided by or under the direct supervision of an occupational health and safety technologist.
(f) A business entity shall not identify, advertise, or represent itself as a provider of radiation protection services furnished by registered radiation protection technologists unless the radiation protection services are provided by or under the direct supervision of a registered radiation protection technologist.
(g) A business entity shall not identify, advertise, or represent itself as a provider of industrial hygiene or safety services furnished by construction health and safety technicians unless the industrial hygiene or safety services are provided by or under the direct supervision of a construction health and safety technician.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 320,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
