# § 2-8-132. Provisions for establishment of advertising, research, and education programs

(1) Provisions for the establishment of plans for advertising and sales promotion to maintain present markets or to create new or larger markets for equine grown in this state or for the prevention, modification, or removal of trade barriers which obstruct the normal flow of equines to market. The commission is authorized to prepare, issue, administer, and enforce plans for promoting the sale of equines, provided that any such plan shall be directed toward promoting and increasing the sale, use, and utilization of equines without reference to a particular producer or breed; and provided, further, that no advertising or sales promotion program shall be issued by the Commissioner or the commission which makes use of false or unwarranted claims on behalf of any equines or disparages the quality, value, sale, or use of any other agricultural commodity;
(2) Provisions for carrying on research studies in promoting the production, marketing, sale, use and utilization, and improvement of equines or any combination thereof and for the expenditure of moneys for such purposes. In any research carried on under this paragraph, the Commissioner and the commission shall cooperate in selecting the research project or projects to be carried on from time to time. Such projects shall be carried out by postsecondary educational institutions or private organizations selected by the commission;
(3) Provisions establishing or providing authority for establishing an educational program designed to acquaint producers or the general public about the equine industry and its associated issues.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 652,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2007.
