# § 2-8-131. Issuance, administration, and enforcement of marketing orders; hearing

(a) The Commissioner, upon the approval and request of the commission, is authorized to issue, administer, and enforce the provisions of marketing orders.
(b)
  (1) Whenever the Commissioner has reason to believe that the issuance of a marketing order or amendments to an existing marketing order will tend to effectuate the declared policy of this article with respect to any equines, he or she shall, either upon his or her own motion, upon the motion of the commission, or upon the application of any producer, or any organization of such persons, give due notice of and an opportunity for a public hearing upon a proposed marketing order or amendments to an existing marketing order.
  (2) Notice of any hearing called for such purpose shall be given by the Commissioner or the commission by publishing a notice of such hearing for a period of not less than five days in a newspaper of general circulation published in the capital of the state and in such other newspapers as the Commissioner may prescribe. No such public hearing shall be held prior to five days after the last day of such period of publication. Such notice of hearing shall in all respects comply with the requirements of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
  (3) The hearing shall be public and all testimony shall be received under oath. A full and complete record of the proceedings at such hearing shall be made and maintained on file in the office of the Commissioner or the commission. The hearing shall, in all respects, be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." The hearing may be conducted by the commission, by a member of the commission, or by the Commissioner, as may be designated by the commission in each instance, but no decision shall be made based on hearings conducted other than by the commission itself, at which a majority of the members thereof are present, until the members of the commission have been afforded an opportunity to review the hearing record. Where the commission conducts hearings, its recommendation shall be based on the findings reached after a review of the record of the hearing.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 652,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2007.
