# § 2-8-90. Definitions

(1) "Advertising and sales promotion" means, in addition to the ordinarily accepted meaning thereof, trade promotion and activities for the prevention, modification, or removal of trade barriers which restrict the normal flow of Georgia grown products to market and may include the presentation of facts to and negotiations with state, federal, or foreign governmental agencies on matters which affect the marketing of Georgia grown products.
(2) "Commission" means the Agricultural Commodity Commission for Georgia Grown Products created under this article.
(3) "Georgia grown products" means any agricultural, horticultural, floricultural, silvicultural, or vegetable products commercially produced in this state.
(4) "Person" means an individual, firm, corporation, association, or any other business unit or any combination thereof and includes any state agency which engages in any of the commercial activities regulated pursuant to this article.
(5) "Processor" means any person engaged within this state in the operation of receiving, grading, packing, canning, extracting, preserving, grinding, crushing, milling, or changing the form of a Georgia grown product for the purpose of preparing for market or marketing such product or engaged in any other activities performed for the purpose of preparing for market or marketing such product.
(6) "Producer" means any person engaged within this state in the business of producing or causing to be produced for market Georgia grown products.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 2, eff. 4/29/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 21,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
