# § 2-8-54. Authority; legal representation; acceptance and use of donations, gifts, and other property; exercise of powers of corporations; continuation of existence of commission; authority to lease or purchase property

(a) The commission is authorized to appoint advisory boards, special committees, and individuals, including technical and clerical personnel, to advise, aid, and assist the commission in the performance of its duties. Compensation for such services shall be fixed by the commission and may be paid from the funds of the commission. The Attorney General shall represent the commission in legal matters and shall be the attorney for the commission. If the Attorney General determines that outside legal counsel is necessary or desirable in connection with any legal matter of the commission, he shall so inform the commission and, upon approval of the commission, he shall employ such outside counsel. Compensation for such outside counsel shall be agreed upon between such counsel and the Attorney General, subject to the approval of the commission. Such compensation shall be paid from the funds of the commission. Neither Code Section 16-10-9 nor any other law shall prohibit or be applicable to the employment of such counsel.
(b) The commission is authorized to accept donations, gifts, and other property and to use the same for commission purposes. The commission may exercise the powers and authority conferred by law upon corporations.
(c) The commission shall continue as a public corporation and instrumentality of the State of Georgia until abolished by law or until terminated by referendum.
(d) The commission is authorized to acquire, lease as lessee, purchase, hold, own, and use any franchise or real or personal property, whether tangible or intangible, or any interest therein and, whenever the same is no longer required for purposes of the commission, to sell, lease as lessor, transfer, or dispose thereof or to exchange the same for other property or rights which are useful for its purposes.
