# § 2-8-28. Collection of assessments by civil action; penalty for delinquent payment

(a) Any assessment levied or established in accordance with this article in such specified amount as may be determined by the Commissioner or the commission pursuant to this article shall constitute a personal debt of every person so assessed and shall be due and payable to the Commissioner when payment is called for by the Commissioner. In the event of the failure of such person to pay any such assessment upon the date determined by the Commissioner, the Commissioner may file an action against such person in a court of competent jurisdiction for the collection thereof.
(b) In the event that any producer or handler duly assessed pursuant to this article fails to pay to the Commissioner the amount so assessed on or before the date specified by the Commissioner, the Commissioner is authorized to add to such unpaid assessment an amount not exceeding 10 percent of such unpaid assessment to defray the cost of enforcing the collection of such unpaid assessment.
(c) The provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section with respect to collection of assessments by action are in addition to and cumulative of the provisions of this article authorizing the issuance of executions for assessments by the Commissioner. The 10 percent penalty authorized to be assessed upon delinquent assessments under subsection (b) of this Code section may likewise be included in any execution issued by the Commissioner. Such remedies may be pursued concurrently until satisfaction is obtained upon either. Any penalty recovered shall become a part of the principal assessment levied and shall be for the use of the commission entitled thereto as are other moneys received under this article.
