# § 2-8-61. Issuance, administration, and enforcement of marketing orders; notice and hearing as to proposed order; information from persons who may be affected by order

(a) The commission is authorized to issue, administer, and enforce the provisions of marketing orders regulating producer marketing or the handling of peanuts within this state.
(b)
  (1) Whenever the commission has reason to believe that the issuance of a marketing order or amendments to an existing marketing order will tend to effectuate the declared policy of this article with respect to peanuts, it shall, either upon its own motion or upon the application of any producer of peanuts or any organization of such persons, give due notice of and an opportunity for a public hearing upon a proposed marketing order or amendments to an existing marketing order.
  (2) Notice of any hearing called for such purpose shall be given by the commission by publishing a notice of such hearing for a period of not less than five days in a newspaper of general circulation published in the capital of the state and in such other newspapers as the commission may prescribe. No such public hearing shall be held prior to five days after the last day of such period of publication. The commission shall also mail a copy of such notice of hearing and a copy of such proposed marketing order or proposed amendments to all producers of peanuts whose names and addresses appear upon lists of such persons on file with the commission and who may be directly affected by the provisions of such proposed marketing order or such proposed amendments. Such notice of hearing shall in all respects comply with the requirements of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
  (3) The hearing shall be public and all testimony shall be received under oath. A full and complete record of the proceedings at such hearing shall be made and maintained on file in the office of the commission. The hearing shall, in all respects, be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." The hearing may be conducted by the commission or by a member of the commission, as may be designated by the commission in each instance, but no decision shall be made based on hearings conducted other than by the commission itself, at which a majority of the members thereof are present, until the members of the commission have been afforded an opportunity to review the hearing record. Where the commission conducts hearings, its recommendation shall be based on the findings reached after a review of the record of the hearing.
(c)
  (1) In order to provide the commission with accurate and reliable information with respect to the persons who may be directly affected by any proposed marketing order for peanuts when such information is not then on file with the commission, the commission is authorized and directed, whenever the commission has reason to believe that the issuance of a marketing order will tend to effectuate the declared policy of this article or upon receipt of a written application for a hearing pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, to notify all handlers of peanuts, by publication of a notice as required in paragraph (2) of this subsection, to file with the commission within ten days from the last date of such publication a report, properly certified, showing:
    (A) The correct name and address of such handler;
    (B) The quantities of peanuts affected by the proposed marketing order handled by such handler in the marketing season next preceding the filing of such report;
    (C) The correct names and addresses of all producers of peanuts who may be directly affected by such proposed marketing order, from whom such handler received peanuts in the marketing season next preceding the filing of such report; and
    (D) The quantities of peanuts received by such handler from each such producer in the marketing season next preceding the filing of such report.
  (2) The notice to handlers requiring them to file a report shall be published by the commission for a period of not less than five days in a newspaper of general circulation published in the capital of the state and in such other newspaper or newspapers as the commission may prescribe. The commission shall also mail a copy of such notice to all handlers of peanuts whose names and addresses appear upon the lists on file with the commission who may be directly affected by such proposed marketing order.
  (3) Each handler of peanuts directly affected by a proposed marketing order shall file his verified report with the commission within the time specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection. Failure or refusal of any handler to file such report shall not invalidate any proceeding taken or marketing order issued. The commission is authorized and directed to proceed upon the basis of such information and reports as may otherwise be available.
  (4) From the reports so filed and the information so received or available to the commission, including any proper corrections, the commission shall prepare a list of the names and addresses of such producers and the volume of peanuts produced or marketed by all such producers and a list of the names and addresses of such handlers and the volume of peanuts handled by all such handlers, directly affected by such proposed marketing order or amendments thereto, in the preceding marketing season. Such lists shall constitute complete and conclusive lists for use in any finding made by the commission pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 2-8-63 and such findings shall be conclusive.
  (5) The information contained in the individual reports of handlers filed with the commission pursuant to this Code section shall not be made public in such form. The information contained in such reports may be prepared in combined form for use by the commission, its agents, or other interested persons in the formulation, administration, and enforcement of a marketing order or may be made available pursuant to court order. Such information shall not be made available to anyone for private purposes.
