# § 2-8-53. Membership of commission; division of peanut-producing counties into districts; election of members; compensation and expenses; certification of members to Secretary of State

(a) The Agricultural Commodity Commission for Peanuts shall be composed of five members, who shall be peanut producers to be elected in the manner provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b)
  (1) For the purpose of electing the five members of the Agricultural Commodity Commission for Peanuts, the commission shall divide those counties within this state in which peanuts are produced into five districts, each of which shall have approximately equal quota pound production of peanuts. Any county in which peanuts are not produced shall not be included in any of the five districts. Such districts in existence on July 1, 1989, shall remain as constituted on such date until otherwise changed by the commission.
  (2) The five producer members of the Agricultural Commodity Commission for Peanuts who are serving as such on July 1, 1989, shall continue as members for the remainder of their unexpired terms. Prior to the expiration of a term of office, it shall be the duty of the commission to conduct an election for a successor. Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, elections shall be called and conducted in the manner specified by the commission. One member shall be elected from each district by the producers of peanuts residing in such district. To be eligible for election, a person must be a peanut producer. No producer of peanuts residing within the district shall be denied the right to seek election to membership on the commission.
  (3) A person must receive a majority of the votes cast for a position in order to be elected to such position; provided, however, if only one person qualifies for such position, no election shall be required and that person shall automatically become a member of the commission. If no person receives a majority of the votes cast for such position, a run-off election shall be conducted by the commission. Any member may succeed himself as a member of a commission. Members shall have terms of office of three years each and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
  (4) Vacancies in the membership of the commission shall be filled by election in the same manner as the original election of such members. Any person elected to fill a vacancy shall be elected for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(c) The members of the commission shall receive compensation and reimbursement of expenses as shall be provided by the commission, and such funds shall be payable from the funds of the commission. The commission shall keep comprehensive and detailed records of all compensation and expense reimbursement paid to each member of the commission. In connection with the audits provided for in subsection (h) of Code Section 2-8-67, the state auditor shall annually prepare a comprehensive and detailed report of the compensation and reimbursement paid to each member of the commission and shall provide a copy of such report to the commission; and such report shall be available to any producer of peanuts upon written request of any such producer.
(d) It shall be the duty of the commission to certify to the Secretary of State the membership of the commission and each change in membership as the same occurs.
