# § 2-8-202. Membership; vacancies; compensation; certification of membership; naming of chairperson; quorum

(a) The commission shall be composed of:
  (1) Three members elected by the House Committee on Agriculture and Consumer Affairs with a quorum present and a majority of those present concurring, each of whom shall be a dealer or distributor and shall not be a member of the General Assembly;
  (2) Three members elected by the Senate Agriculture and Consumer Affairs Committee with a quorum present and a majority of those present concurring, each of whom shall be a dealer or distributor and shall not be a member of the General Assembly; and
  (3) One member elected by a majority of the members of the commission as specified in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, who shall be a dealer or distributor and shall not be a member of the General Assembly.
(b) Vacancies in the membership of the commission shall be filled in the same manner as that of the original election of such members. Any person selected to fill a vacancy shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(c) There shall be no compensation or reimbursement of expenses for members of the commission.
(d) It shall be the duty of the commission to certify to the Secretary of State the membership of the commission and each change in membership as the same occurs.
(e) The commission shall name its chairperson and determine a quorum for the transaction of business.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 35,§ 1, eff. 4/18/2019.
