# § 2-8-217. Attorney General or prosecuting attorney to bring actions; administrative hearings; response to finding violation

(a) The commission on its own motion or upon the complaint of any interested party may refer to the Attorney General of this state or to any prosecuting attorney of this state any charges of a violation of any provision of this article or of any marketing order or any rule or regulation issued by the commission and effective under this article for the institution of legal proceedings thereupon or, if the commission deems it necessary or advisable, immediately call an administrative hearing, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," governing contested cases, to consider the charges set forth in such verified complaint.
(b) In case the matter is referred directly by the commission to the Attorney General or any prosecuting attorney, it shall be the duty of such officer, if after examination of the complaint and the evidence he or she believes that a violation has occurred, to bring an appropriate action or actions in a court or courts of competent jurisdiction.
(c) After an administrative hearing, if the commission finds that a violation has occurred, it shall enter its findings and notify the parties to such complaint. In its discretion, the commission shall either refer the matter to the Attorney General for the institution of legal proceedings or notify such parties to cease and desist from further violation. Upon the refusal or failure of such parties to comply or if the commission finds that the facts or circumstances warrant immediate prosecution, the commission shall file a complaint with the Attorney General or with any prosecuting attorney of this state, requesting that such officer commence any or all actions authorized in this article against such respondent or respondents in a court of competent jurisdiction.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 35,§ 1, eff. 4/18/2019.
