# § 2-8-135. Commission authorized to borrow funds for certain purposes; disposition of funds collected pursuant to this article

(a) In the event that the commission has reason to believe that the administration of a marketing order will be facilitated or the attainment of the purposes and objectives of the marketing order will be promoted thereby, the commission is authorized to borrow money, with or without interest, to carry out any provision of any marketing order authorized by this article and may hypothecate anticipated funds due to the commission as otherwise provided by law and applicable to such respective provisions.
(b) In lieu of requiring advance deposits for defraying administrative or advertising and sales promotion expenses until such time as sufficient moneys are collected for such purposes from any funds due to the commission as otherwise provided by law, the Commissioner is authorized to receive and disburse for such purposes contributions made by producers or distributors. Neither the commission nor the Commissioner shall be held responsible for the repayment of such contributions, provided that whenever collections from the payment of any funds due to the commission and credited to the respective marketing order accounts are sufficient so to warrant, the commission shall recommend and the Commissioner shall repay contributions.
(c) Any moneys collected by the commission or the Commissioner pursuant to this article shall be deposited in a bank or other depository approved by the commission and shall be disbursed by the Commissioner only for the necessary expenses incurred by the commission and the Commissioner, as approved by the commission. Funds so collected shall be deposited and disbursed in conformity with appropriate rules and regulations prescribed by the Commissioner. All such expenditures by the Commissioner shall be audited at least annually by the state auditor and a copy of such audit shall be delivered within 30 days after the completion thereof to the Governor, the Commissioner, and the commission. If ever the commission is abolished by law, any funds remaining in its hands at such time shall be used to pay the existing obligations of the commission and the expenses incurred in winding up the affairs of the commission. Any excess remaining shall escheat to the state and shall be paid by the Commissioner into the state treasury as unclaimed trust funds.
(d) Moneys deposited by the Commissioner pursuant to this Code section which the commission determines are available for investment may be invested or reinvested by the Commissioner as provided for funds of this state or of any retirement system created by law, provided that all moneys invested shall be invested in those areas of production that will provide a return at the highest bank interest rate available. It shall be the duty of the commission annually to review these investments and determine that such investments comply with this Code section.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 652,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2007.
