# § 52-1-3. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Board of Natural Resources.
(2) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of natural resources.
(3) "Structure" means any structure located upon any tidewaters of this state, whether such structure is floating upon such tidewaters and is made fast by the use of lines, cables, anchors, or pilings, or any combination thereof, or is built upon pilings embedded in the beds of such tidewaters when such structure is being or has been used or is capable of being used as a place of habitation, dwelling, sojournment, or residence for any length of time; is not being used or is not capable of being used as a means of transportation upon such tidewaters; and is not owned, occupied, or possessed pursuant to a permit issued by the commissioner pursuant to Code Section 52-1-10. Such structures may include, but are not limited to, vessels not being used in navigation; provided, however, that structures do not include live-aboard vessels, as defined in Code Section 52-7-8.4. Structures shall also not include fishing camps, bait shops, restaurants, or other commercial establishments permitted under Part 4 of Article 4 of Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Coastal Marshlands Protection Act of 1970," as amended, which do not discharge sewage into the waters of this state and are operated in conformance with the zoning ordinances, if any, of the municipality or county in which they are located.
(4) "Tidewaters" means the sea and all rivers and arms of the sea that are affected by the tide, where the tide rises and falls, which are capable of use for fishing, passage, navigation, commerce, or transportation, and which are located within the jurisdiction of the State of Georgia.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 245,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2020.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 733,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2012.
