# § 26-5-46. Application enrollment period; required letter of intent

(a) The department shall establish an annual or biannual open enrollment period to accept applications for narcotic treatment programs.
(b) The department shall establish an information forum for potential applicants prior to the beginning of the open enrollment period that shall be no less than 14 days prior to the start of the open enrollment period. It shall be mandatory for a representative of a prospective applicant for such open enrollment period to attend the information forum. Failure to attend and comply with such record of attendance requirements shall disqualify any applicant from consideration during open enrollment.
(c) It shall be mandatory for an applicant to submit a letter of intent stating such applicant's intention to apply for a narcotic treatment program license. Such letter of intent shall include the intended address and region location. The letter shall be delivered to the department at least seven days prior to the beginning of the open enrollment period.
(d) The first open enrollment period shall be held December 1, 2017, through December 31, 2017, and the department shall not accept any applications for licensure until December 1, 2017.
(e) After the first open enrollment period, the department shall administratively determine the annual or biannual open enrollment period no later than December 1 of the preceding calendar year.

## History

Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 140,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2017.
