# § 26-5-3. Definitions

(1) "Department" means the Department of Community Health or its successor.
(2) "Drug abuse treatment and education program" means any system of treatment or therapeutic advice or counsel provided for the rehabilitation of drug dependent persons and shall include programs offered in the following types of facilities:
  (A) Residential care centers. A facility staffed by professional and paraprofessional persons offering treatment or therapeutic programs for drug dependent persons who live on the premises; and
  (B) Nonresidential care centers. A non-live-in facility, staffed by professional and paraprofessional persons, offering treatment or therapeutic programs for drug dependent persons who do not live on the premises.
(3) "Drug dependent person" means a person who is in imminent danger of becoming dependent upon or addicted to the use of drugs or who habitually lacks self-control as to the use of drugs or who uses drugs to the extent that his health is substantially impaired or endangered or his social or economic function is substantially disrupted.
(4) "Drugs" means any substance defined as a drug by federal or Georgia law or any other chemical substance which may be used in lieu of a drug to obtain similar effects, with the exception of alcohol and its derivatives.
(5) "Governing body" means the county board of health, the partnership, the corporation, the association, or the person or group of persons who maintains and controls the program and who is legally responsible for the operation.
(6) "License" means the official permit issued by the director which authorizes the holder to operate a drug abuse treatment and education program for the term provided therein.
(7) "Licensee" means any person holding a license issued by the director under this article.
(8) "Program" means the drug abuse treatment and education program.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 140,§ 2, eff. 5/4/2017.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
