# § 53-5-21. Procedure

(a) A will may be proved in solemn form after service of notice upon the persons required to be served, upon the testimony of all the witnesses in life and within the jurisdiction of the court, or by proof of their signatures and that of the testator as provided in Code Section 53-5-23; provided, however, that the testimony of only one witness shall be required to prove the will in solemn form if no caveat is filed. If a will is self-proved, compliance with signature requirements and other requirements of execution is presumed subject to rebuttal without the necessity of the testimony of any witness upon filing the will and affidavit annexed or attached thereto.
(b) The petition to probate a will in solemn form shall set forth the full name, the place of domicile, and the date of death of the testator; the mailing address of the petitioner; the names, ages or majority status, and addresses of all the heirs, stating each such heir's relationship to the testator; and whether, to the knowledge of the petitioner, any other proceedings with respect to the probate of another purported will of the testator are pending in this state and, if so, the names and addresses of the propounders and the names, addresses, and ages or majority status of the beneficiaries under the other purported will. If a testamentary guardian is being appointed in accordance with subsection (b) of Code Section 29-2-4, the names and mailing addresses of any persons required to be served with notice pursuant to such Code section shall be provided by the petitioner. In the event full particulars are lacking, the petition shall state the reasons for any omission. The petition shall conclude with a prayer for issuance of letters testamentary. If all of the heirs acknowledge service of the petition and notice and shall in their acknowledgment assent thereto, and if there are no other proceedings pending in this state with respect to the probate of another purported will of the decedent, the will may be probated and letters testamentary thereupon may issue without further delay; provided, however, that letters of guardianship shall only be issued in accordance with Code Section 29-2-4.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 508,§ 1-22, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 635,§ 4-2, eff. 1/1/2015.
