# § 31-6-41. Scope and term of validity of certificate

(a) A certificate of need shall be valid only for the defined scope, location, cost, service area, and person named in an application, as it may be amended, and as such scope, location, service area, cost, and person are approved by the department, unless such certificate of need owned by an existing health care facility is transferred to a person who acquires such existing facility. In such case, the certificate of need shall be valid for the person who acquires such a facility and for the scope, location, cost, and service area approved by the department. However, in reviewing an application to relocate all or a portion of an existing skilled nursing facility, intermediate care facility, or intermingled nursing facility, the department may allow such facility to divide into two or more such facilities if the department determines that the proposed division is financially feasible and would be consistent with quality patient care.
(b) A certificate of need shall be valid and effective for a period of 12 months after it is issued, or such greater period of time as may be specified by the department at the time the certificate of need is issued. Within the effective period after the grant of a certificate of need, the applicant of a proposed project shall fulfill reasonable performance and scheduling requirements specified by the department, by rule, to assure reasonable progress toward timely completion of a project.
(c) By rule, the department may provide for extension of the effective period of a certificate of need when an applicant, by petition, makes a good faith showing that the conditions to be specified according to subsection (b) of this Code section will be performed within the extended period and that the reasons for the extension are beyond the control of the applicant.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 31, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 392,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2008.
