# § 31-6-48. Prior entities abolished; transfer of contractual obligations

The State Health Planning and Development Agency, the State-wide Health Coordinating Council, and the State Health Planning Review Board existing immediately prior to July 1, 1983, are abolished, and their respective successors on and after July 1, 1983, shall be the Health Planning Agency, the Health Policy Council, and the Health Planning Review Board, as established in this chapter, except that on and after July 1, 1991, the Health Strategies Council shall be the successor to the Health Policy Council, and except that on and after July 1, 1999, the Department of Community Health shall be the successor to the Health Planning Agency, and except that on and after July 1, 2008, the Board of Community Health shall be the successor to the duties of the Health Strategies Council with respect to adoption of the state health plan, and except that on June 30, 2008, the Health Planning Review Board is abolished and the terms of all members on such board on such date shall automatically terminate and the Certificate of Need Appeal Panel shall be the successor to the duties of the Health Planning Review Board on such date. For purposes of any existing contract with the federal government, or federal law referring to such abolished agency, council, or board, the successor department, council, or board established in this chapter or in Chapter 2 of this title shall be deemed to be the abolished agency, council, or board and shall succeed to the abolished agency's, council's, or board's functions. The State Health Planning and Development Commission is abolished.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-25, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 392,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2008.
