# § 31-6-45.1. Automatic revocation of certificate of need or authority

(a) A health care facility which has a certificate of need or is otherwise authorized to operate pursuant to this chapter shall have such certificate of need or authority to operate automatically revoked by operation of law without any action by the department when that facility's permit to operate pursuant to Code Section 31-7-4 is finally revoked by order of the department. For purposes of this subsection, the date of such final revocation shall be as follows:
  (1) When there is no appeal of the order pursuant to Chapter 5 of this title, the one hundred and eightieth day after the date upon which expires the time for appealing the revocation order without such an appeal being filed; or
  (2) When there is an appeal of the order pursuant to Chapter 5 of this title, the date upon which expires the time to appeal the last administrative or judicial order affirming or approving the revocation or revocation order without such appeal being filed.
(b) The services which had been authorized to be offered by a health care facility for which a certificate of need has been revoked pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section may continue to be offered in the service area in which that facility was located under such conditions as specified by the department notwithstanding that some or all of such services could not otherwise be offered as new institutional health services.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 392,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 31, eff. 2/12/2001.
