# § 31-6-40.3. Conversion of destination cancer hospital to general cancer hospital; procedure; requirements

(a) On and after July 1, 2019, a destination cancer hospital may apply for a certificate of need to convert to a general cancer hospital in accordance with this Code section. A destination cancer hospital that elects to convert to a general cancer hospital shall notify the department in a form and manner established by the department.
(b) The department shall establish a form and process for a destination cancer hospital to submit a certificate of need application to convert to a general cancer hospital; provided, however, that such a conversion shall not be subject to any of the considerations in Code Section 31-6-42 or service specific rules and shall not be subject to opposition or appeal by any other health care facilities. The department shall develop such form and guidance required by this subsection within 30 days of July 1, 2019. Upon its receipt of a complete application for a destination cancer hospital to convert to a general cancer hospital, the department shall issue such certificate of need within 60 days.
(c) Upon the conversion of a destination cancer hospital to a general cancer hospital:
  (1) The general cancer hospital may continue to provide all institutional health care services and other services it provided as of the date of such conversion, including but not limited to inpatient beds, outpatient services, surgery, radiation therapy, imaging, and positron emission tomography (PET) scanning, without any further approval from the department;
  (2) The destination cancer hospital shall be classified as a general cancer hospital under this chapter and shall be subject to all requirements and conditions applicable to hospitals under this article, including but not limited to, indigent and charity care and inventories and methodologies to determine need for additional providers or services; and
  (3) The hospital's inpatient beds, operating rooms, radiation therapy equipment, and imaging equipment existing on the date of conversion shall not be counted in the inventory by the department for purposes of determining need for additional providers or services, except that any inpatient beds, operating rooms, radiation therapy equipment, and imaging equipment added after the date of conversion shall be counted in accordance with the department's rules and regulations.
(d) In the event that a destination cancer hospital does not convert to a general cancer hospital, it shall remain subject to all requirements and conditions applicable to destination cancer hospitals under this article.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 41,§ 1-6, eff. 7/1/2019.
