# § 45-13-71. Duties and responsibilities of commission

(1) To meet at such times and places as it shall determine necessary or convenient to perform its duties. The commission shall also meet on the call of the chairperson or the Governor;
(2) To maintain minutes of its meetings;
(3) To adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of its business;
(4) To organize itself as it deems appropriate to carry out its functions;
(5) To be responsible for developing policies and procedures for and to oversee the acquisition, installation, preservation, maintenance, display, and storage of all capitol artwork. As used in this part, the term "capitol artwork" means visual art of museum quality owned by the State of Georgia that is displayed in or on the grounds of the capitol or is held for the purpose of future display to include, but not be limited to, portraits, paintings, sculptures, and plaques. The Georgia Capitol Museum shall remain responsible for the documentation, appraisal, control, handling, and conservation of the present and future artwork in the capitol art collection;
(6) To establish a collection policy for all capitol artwork;
(7) To develop standards and procedures for determining whether to acquire new artwork which shall include criteria for judging the relevance of the subject, the historical significance to the State of Georgia, and the quality of the artwork produced and an approval process for such acquisitions. No artwork shall be acquired or installed without final approval of the commission;
(8) To develop a process for the selection, placement, installation, and rotation of capitol artwork in the capitol, in the capitol museum, in the areas of the capitol museum designated as the Georgia Capitol Agricultural History Museum areas, and on the capitol grounds;
(9) To develop policies and procedures for outgoing loans from the capitol art collection and for temporary displays of artwork in the capitol, in the capitol museum, in the areas of the capitol museum designated as the Georgia Capitol Agricultural History Museum areas, and on the capitol grounds;
(10) To develop deaccession policies and procedures for artwork in the capitol art collection that should be removed based upon poor quality or lack of relevance or similar factors; and
(11) To perform such other duties and responsibilities as required by law.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 618,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 467,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
