# § 35-3-162. Procedure for analysis and storage of blood sample; use of remainder of sample not subjected to analysis; confidentiality of results

Whether or not the results of an analysis are to be included in the data bank, the bureau shall conduct the DNA analysis in accordance with procedures adopted by the bureau to determine identification characteristics specific to the individual whose sample is being analyzed. The director or his or her designated representative shall complete and maintain on file a form indicating the name of the person whose sample is to be analyzed, the date and by whom the sample was received and examined, and a statement that the seal on the container containing the sample had not been broken or otherwise tampered with. The remainder of a sample submitted for analysis and inclusion in the data bank pursuant to Code Section 35-3-160 may be divided, if possible, labeled as provided for the original sample, and securely stored by the bureau in accordance with specific procedures of the bureau to ensure the integrity and confidentiality of the samples. All or part of the remainder of that sample may be used only to create a statistical data base provided no identifying information on the individual whose sample is being analyzed is included or for retesting by the bureau to validate or update the original analysis. A report of the results of a DNA analysis conducted by the bureau as authorized, including the identifying information, shall be made and maintained at the bureau. Except as specifically provided in this Code section and Code Section 35-3-163, the results of the analysis shall be securely stored and shall remain confidential.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 67,§; 3-1, eff. 1/1/2013.
