# § 35-3-34. Disclosure and dissemination of criminal records to private persons and businesses; resulting responsibility and liability of issuing center; provision of certain information to the FBI in conjunction with the National Instant Criminal Background Check System

(a) The center shall be authorized to:
  (1) Make criminal history records maintained by the center available to private persons and businesses under the following conditions:
    (A) Private individuals and businesses requesting criminal history records shall, at the time of the request, provide the fingerprints of the person whose records are requested or provide a signed consent of the person whose records are requested on a form prescribed by the center which shall include such person's full name, address, social security number, and date of birth;
    (B)
      (i) The center shall not provide records of arrests, charges, or sentences when an individual has been sentenced pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 42 and has been exonerated and discharged without court adjudication of guilt as a matter of law or pursuant to a court order, including records relating to such defendant's bench warrants, failure to appear, and probation for such offense, except as specifically authorized by Code Section 42-8-63.1. The center shall not provide records of arrests, charges, or sentences when an individual has been sentenced as provided in Code Section 15-1-20, including records relating to such defendant's bench warrants, failure to appear, and probation for such offense, except as specifically authorized by Code Section 42-8-63.1.
      (ii) During the period of time after a defendant, who has been sentenced pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 42 but has not been exonerated and discharged without court adjudication of guilt as a matter of law or pursuant to a court order, has completed active probation supervision through the remainder of such sentence, the center shall not provide records of arrests, charges, or sentences except as specifically authorized by Code Section 42-8-63.1.
      (iii) The center may provide records of arrests, charges, or sentences when an individual has been sentenced pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 42 but has not been exonerated and discharged without court adjudication of guilt as a matter of law or pursuant to a court order, as specifically authorized by Code Section 42-8-63.1, while a defendant is under active probation supervision for such offense, or as provided in a court order;
    (C) When the identifying information provided is sufficient to identify persons whose records are requested electronically, the center may disseminate electronically criminal history records of in-state felony convictions, pleas, and sentences without:
      (i) Fingerprint comparison; or
      (ii) Consent of the person whose records are requested; and
    (D) The center shall not provide records of arrests, charges, or dispositions when access has been restricted pursuant to Code Section 3-3-23.1, 15-1-20, 16-13-2, 35-3-37, or 42-8-62.1; or
  (2) Make criminal history records of the defendant or witnesses in a criminal action available to counsel for the defendant upon receipt of a written request from the defendant's counsel under the following conditions:
    (A) Such request shall contain the style of the case and the name and identifying information for each person whose records are requested. Such request shall be submitted to the center;
    (B) In cases where the court has determined the defendant to be indigent, any fees authorized by law shall be waived; and
    (C) Disclosure of criminal history information to the defendant's counsel as provided in this paragraph shall be solely in such counsel's capacity as an officer of the court. Any use of such information in a manner not authorized by law or the court in which such action is pending where the records were disclosed shall constitute a violation of Code Section 35-3-38; and
  (3) Charge fees for disseminating records pursuant to this Code section which will raise an amount of revenue which approximates, as nearly as practicable, the direct and indirect costs to the state for providing such disseminations.
(b) In the event that an employment decision is made adverse to a person whose record was obtained pursuant to this Code section, the person will be informed by the business or person making the adverse employment decision of all information pertinent to that decision. This disclosure shall include information that a record was obtained from the center, the specific contents of the record, and the effect the record had upon the decision. Failure to provide all such information to the person subject to the adverse decision shall be a misdemeanor.
(c) Neither the center, its employees, nor any agency or employee of the state shall be responsible for the accuracy of information nor have any liability for defamation, invasion of privacy, negligence, or any other claim in connection with the dissemination pursuant to this Code section and shall be immune from suit based upon any such claims.
(d) Local criminal justice agencies may disseminate criminal history records, without fingerprint comparison or prior contact with the center, to private individuals and businesses under the same conditions as set forth in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Code section and may charge fees as needed to reimburse such agencies for their direct and indirect costs related to the providing of such disseminations.
(d.1) Reserved.
(d.2) When identifying information provided is sufficient to identify persons whose records are requested, local criminal justice agencies may disseminate criminal history records of in-state felony convictions, pleas, and sentences unless such records are restricted pursuant to Code Section 35-3-37, except as specifically authorized by Code Section 42-8-63.1, without:
  (1) Fingerprint comparison;
  (2) Prior contact with the center; or
  (3) Consent of the person whose records are requested. Such information may be disseminated to private individuals and businesses under the conditions specified in subparagraph (a)(1)(B) of this Code section upon payment of the fee for the request and when the request is made upon a form prescribed by the center. Such agencies may charge and retain fees as needed to reimburse such agencies for the direct and indirect costs of providing such information and shall have the same immunity therefor as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(d.3) No fee charged pursuant to this Code section may exceed $20.00 per person whose criminal history record is requested or be charged to any person or entity authorized prior to January 1, 1995, to obtain information pursuant to this Code section without payment of such fee.
(d.4) The center shall place a high priority on inquiries from any nuclear power facility requesting a criminal history and shall respond to such requests as expeditiously as possible, but in no event shall a response be made more than two business days following receipt of the request.
(e)
  (1) The Georgia Crime Information Center shall be authorized to provide criminal history records, wanted person records, and involuntary hospitalization records information to the Federal Bureau of Investigation in conjunction with the National Instant Criminal Background Check System in accordance with the federal Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act, 18 U.S.C. Section 921, et seq.
  (2) The records of the Georgia Crime Information Center shall include information as to whether a person has been involuntarily hospitalized. Notwithstanding any other provisions of law and in order to carry out the provisions of this Code section and Code Section 16-11-172, the Georgia Crime Information Center shall be provided such information and no other mental health information from the involuntary hospitalization records of the probate courts concerning persons involuntarily hospitalized after March 22, 1995, in a manner agreed upon by the Probate Judges Training Council and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to preserve the confidentiality of patients' rights in all other respects. Further, notwithstanding any other provisions of law and in order to carry out the provisions of this Code section and Code Section 16-11-172, the center shall be provided information as to whether a person has been adjudicated mentally incompetent to stand trial or not guilty by reason of insanity at the time of the crime, has been involuntarily hospitalized, or both from the records of the clerks of the superior courts concerning persons involuntarily hospitalized after March 22, 1995, in a manner agreed upon by The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia and the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to preserve the confidentiality of patients' rights in all other respects. After five years have elapsed from the date that a person's involuntary hospitalization information has been received by the Georgia Crime Information Center, the center shall purge its records of such information as soon as practicable and in any event purge such records within 30 days after the expiration of such five-year period.
  (3)
    (A) The records of the center shall include information as to whether a person has been involuntarily hospitalized. In order to carry out the provisions of Code Section 16-11-129, the center shall be provided such information and no other mental health information from the records of the probate and superior courts ordering persons to be involuntarily hospitalized. With respect to probate court records, such information shall be provided in a manner agreed upon by the Probate Judges Training Council and the bureau. With respect to superior court records, such information shall be provided in a manner agreed upon by The Council of Superior Court Clerks of Georgia and the bureau. Such records shall be provided in a manner so as to preserve the confidentiality of patients' rights in all other respects.
    (B) In order to carry out the provisions of Code Section 16-11-129, the center shall be provided information as to whether a person has been adjudicated mentally incompetent to stand trial or has been found not guilty by reason of insanity at the time of the crime. The clerk of court shall report such information to the center immediately but in no case later than ten days after such adjudication of mental incompetence or finding of not guilty by reason of insanity.
(f) The council is empowered to adopt rules, regulations, and forms necessary to implement this Code section. The council shall promulgate regulations to ensure the identity, confidentiality, and security of all records and data provided in accordance with this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 582,§ 2-4, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 6B-3, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 604,§ 1-13, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 709,§ VI-6-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 767,§ 4, eff. 5/3/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 35, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 118,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 375, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004
