# § 35-3-32. Establishment of council; composition; duties and responsibilities of council generally

(a) There is created the Georgia Crime Information Center Council.
(b) The duties and responsibilities of the council are to:
  (1) Advise and assist in the establishment of policies under which the center is to be operated;
  (2) Advise and assist in updating the policies under which the center is to be operated, to the extent that such policies are necessary to comply with the uniform standards promulgated pursuant to paragraph (5) of subsection (h) of Code Section 15-5-24.1;
  (3) Ensure that the information obtained pursuant to this article shall be restricted to the items specified in this article and ensure that the center is administered so as not to accumulate any information or distribute any information that is not specifically approved in this article;
  (4) Ensure that adequate security safeguards are incorporated so that the data available through this system is used only by properly authorized persons and agencies;
  (5) Establish appropriate disciplinary measures to be taken by the center in the instance of violations of data reporting or dissemination of laws, rules, and regulations by criminal justice agencies or members thereof covered by this article; and
  (6) Establish other policies which provide for the efficient and effective use and operation of the center under the limitations imposed by the terms of this article.
(c) The members of the board shall serve ex officio as members of the council and shall constitute the council.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 88,§ 10, eff. 5/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 717,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2022.
