# § 35-3-4. Powers and duties of bureau generally

(a) It shall be the duty of the bureau to:
  (1) Take, receive, and forward fingerprints, photographs, descriptions, and measurements of persons in cooperation with the bureaus and departments of other states and of the United States;
  (2) Exchange information relating to crime and criminals;
  (3) Keep permanent files and records of such information procured or received;
  (4) Provide for the scientific investigation of articles used in committing crimes or articles, fingerprints, or bloodstains found at the scene of a crime;
  (5) Provide for the testing and identification of weapons and projectiles fired therefrom;
  (6) Acquire, collect, classify, and preserve any information which would assist in the identification of any deceased individual who has not been identified after the discovery of such deceased individual;
  (7) Acquire, collect, classify, and preserve immediately any information which would assist in the location of any missing person, including any minor, and provide confirmation as to any entry for such a person to the parent, legal guardian, or next of kin of that person and the bureau shall acquire, collect, classify, and preserve such information from such parent, guardian, or next of kin;
  (8) Exchange such records and information as provided in paragraphs (6) and (7) of this subsection with, and for the official use of, authorized officials of the federal government, the states, cities, counties, and penal and other institutions. With respect to missing minors, such information shall be transmitted immediately to other law enforcement agencies;
  (9) Identify and investigate violations of Article 4 of Chapter 7 of Title 16;
  (10) Identify and investigate violations of Part 2 of Article 3 of Chapter 12 of Title 16, relating to offenses related to minors;
  (11) Identify and investigate violations of Article 8 of Chapter 9 of Title 16;
  (12) Identify and investigate violations of Article 5 of Chapter 8 of Title 16;
  (13) Identify and investigate violations of Code Section 16-5-46;
  (14) Identify and investigate violations of Article 8 of Chapter 5 of Title 16;
  (15)
    (A) Upon request, provide to the board an analysis of criminal history record information to assist the board in determining a sexual offender's risk assessment classification in accordance with the board's duties as specified in Code Section 42-1-14.
    (B) As used in this paragraph, the term:
      (i) "Board" means the Sexual Offender Risk Review Board.
      (ii) "Criminal history record information" has the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 35-3-30.
      (iii) "Risk assessment classification" means the level into which a sexual offender is placed based on the board's assessment.
      (iv) "Sexual offender" has the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 42-1-12;
  (16) Identify and investigate violations of Chapter 2 of Title 21 involving elections which if established are sufficient to change or place in doubt the results of an election; and
  (17) Attorneys employed by the Legal Division of the bureau may serve at the request of a district attorney, solicitor-general, or United States Attorney in the prosecution of any civil or criminal case within the jurisdiction of such district attorney, solicitor-general, or United States Attorney and, while providing such assistance to such district attorney, solicitor-general, or United States Attorney, such attorneys shall have the same authority and power as an attorney employed by such district attorney, solicitor-general, or United States Attorney.
(b) In addition to the duties provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, the members of the bureau shall have and are vested with the same authority, powers, and duties as are possessed by the members of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety under this title.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 347,§ 5-1, eff. 5/4/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 717,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 199,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 390,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2020.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 333,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 132,§ 3-5, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 715,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 617,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 54,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 678,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 570,§ 2, eff. 5/13/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 202,§ 3, eff. 5/23/2007.
