# § 35-3-101. Definitions

(1) "Badge" means any official badge used by employees of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, either in the past or currently.
(2) "Bureau" means the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, its divisions, or operations under its command.
(3) "Director" means the director of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation.
(4) "Emblem" means any official patch or other emblem worn currently or formerly or used by the Investigative Division, the Division of Forensic Sciences, the Georgia Crime Information Center, or any other division or operation under the command of the bureau to identify the bureau or its employees.
(5) "Person" means any person, corporation, organization, or political subdivision of the State of Georgia.
(6) "Seal" means any official symbol, mark, or abbreviation which represents and is used by the Investigative Division, the Division of Forensic Sciences, the Georgia Crime Information Center, or any other division or operation under the command of the bureau to identify the bureau or its employees.
(7) "Willful violator" means any person who knowingly violates the provisions of this article. Any person who violates this article after being advised in writing by the director that such person's activity is in violation of this article shall be considered a willful violator and shall be considered in willful violation of this article. Any person whose agent or representative is a willful violator and who has knowledge of the violation by the agent or representative shall also be considered a willful violator and in willful violation of this article unless, upon learning of the violation, he or she immediately terminates the agency or other relationship with such violator.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 561, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
