# § 35-3-5. Director - Creation; appointment and removal; powers and duties

(a) There is created the position of director.
(b) The director shall be the chief administrative officer and shall be both appointed and removed by the Board of Public Safety with the approval of the Governor.
(c) The director shall coordinate and supervise the work of the Georgia Child Fatality Review Panel created by Code Section 19-15-4 or shall designate a person from within the bureau to serve as the coordinator and supervisor and shall provide such staffing and administrative support to the Georgia Child Fatality Review Panel as may be necessary to enable it to carry out its statutory duties.
(d) The director shall report the death of any child to the chairperson of the review committee, as such term is defined in Code Section 19-15-1, for the county in which such child resided at the time of death, unless the director or his or her designee has knowledge that such death has been reported by the county medical examiner or coroner, pursuant to Code Section 19-15-3, and shall provide such review committee access to any records of the bureau relating to such child.
(e) Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, and subject to the general policy established by the board, the director shall supervise, direct, account for, organize, plan, administer, and execute the functions vested in the bureau by this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 476,§ 2-8, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 114,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
