# § 35-3-31. Establishment of center; staff and equipment generally; State Personnel Board status of personnel

(a) There is established for the state, within the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, a system for the intrastate communication of vital information relating to crimes, criminals, and criminal activity, to be known as the Georgia Crime Information Center.
(b) Central responsibility for the development, maintenance, and operation of the center shall be vested with the director of the center with the assistance and guidance of the Georgia Crime Information Council, the establishment of which is provided for in Code Section 35-3-32.
(c) The director of the center shall maintain the necessary staff along with support services to be procured within the Georgia state government, such as computer services from the Department of Administrative Services, physical space and logistic support from the Department of Public Safety, and other services or sources as necessary, to enable the effective and efficient performance of the duties and responsibilities ascribed to the center in this article.
(d) All personnel of the center shall be administered according to appropriate special and standard schedules issued pursuant to the rules of the State Personnel Board with due recognition to be given by the latter to the special qualifications and availability of the types of individuals required in such an agency.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-53, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
