# § 35-3-161. Time and procedure for withdrawal of blood samples

(a) Each sample required pursuant to Code Section 35-3-160 from persons who are to be incarcerated shall be withdrawn within the first 30 days of incarceration at the receiving unit of the detention facility or at such other place as is designated by the department. Each sample required pursuant to Code Section 35-3-160 from persons who are to be released from a detention facility shall be withdrawn within the 12 months preceding such person's release at a place designated by the department. The required samples from persons who are not sentenced to a term of confinement shall be withdrawn as a condition of probation. The division shall publish in its quality manuals the procedures for the collection and transfer of samples to such division pursuant to Code Section 35-3-154. Personnel at a detention facility shall implement the provisions of this Code section as part of the regular processing of offenders.
(b) Samples collected by oral swab or by a noninvasive procedure may be collected by any individual who has been trained in the procedure. Only a correctional health nurse technician, physician, registered professional nurse, licensed practical nurse, graduate laboratory technician, or phlebotomist shall withdraw any sample of blood to be submitted for analysis. No civil liability shall attach to any person authorized to take a sample as provided in this article as a result of the act of taking a sample from any person submitting thereto, provided the sample was taken according to recognized medically accepted procedures. However, no person shall be relieved from liability for negligence in the withdrawing of any blood sample.
(c) Chemically clean sterile disposable needles shall be used for the withdrawal of all samples of blood. The containers for blood samples, oral swabs, and the samples obtained by noninvasive procedures shall be sealed and labeled with the subject's name, social security number, date of birth, race, and gender plus the name of the person collecting the sample and the date and place of collection. The containers shall be secured to prevent tampering with the contents. The steps set forth in this subsection relating to the taking, handling, identification, and disposition of samples are procedural and not substantive. Substantial compliance therewith shall be deemed to be sufficient. The samples shall be transported to the division not more than 15 days following withdrawal and shall be analyzed and stored in the DNA data bank in accordance with Code Sections 35-3-162 and 35-3-163.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 67,§; 3-1, eff. 1/1/2013.
