# § 49-5-132. Governor's Office for Children and Families established; funding; duties and responsibilities

(a) There is established the Governor's Office for Children and Families which shall be assigned to the Department of Human Services for administrative purposes.
(b) The office shall be the successor entity to the Children and Youth Coordinating Council and to the Children's Trust Fund Commission and shall assume the continuing responsibilities, duties, rights, staff, contracts, debts, liabilities, and authorities of those bodies, any law to the contrary notwithstanding.
(c) The office may accept federal funds granted by Congress or executive order for the purposes of the fund as well as gifts and donations from individuals, private organizations, or foundations. The acceptance and use of federal funds does not commit state funds and does not place an obligation upon the General Assembly to continue the purposes for which the federal funds are made available. All funds received in the manner described in this Code section shall be transmitted to the state treasurer for deposit in the fund to be disbursed as other moneys in such fund.
(d) The office is further vested with authority to carry out the following duties and responsibilities in consultation with the board:
  (1) To carry out the prevention and community based service programs as provided for in Part 2 of this article;
  (2) To carry out the duties relating to mentoring as provided for in Part 3 of this article;
  (3) To cooperate with and secure cooperation of every department, agency, or instrumentality in the state government or its political subdivisions in the furtherance of the purposes of this article;
  (4) To prepare, publish in print or electronically, and disseminate fundamental child related information of a descriptive and analytical nature to all components of the children's service system of this state, including, but not limited to, the juvenile justice system;
  (5) To serve as a state-wide clearing-house for child related information and research;
  (6) In coordination and cooperation with all components of the children's service systems of this state, to develop legislative proposals and executive policy proposals reflective of the priorities of the entire child related systems of this state, including, but not limited to, child abuse injury prevention, treatment, and juvenile justice systems;
  (7) To serve in an advisory capacity to the Governor on issues impacting the children's service systems of this state;
  (8) To coordinate high visibility child related research projects and studies with a state-wide impact when those studies and projects cross traditional system component lines;
  (9) To provide for the interaction, communication, and coordination of all components of the children's service systems of this state and to provide assistance in establishing state-wide goals and standards in the system;
  (10) To provide for the effective coordination and communication between providers of children and youth services, including pediatrics, health, mental health, business and industry, and all components of social services, education, and educational services;
  (11) To encourage and facilitate the establishment of local commissions or coalitions on children and youth and to facilitate the involvement of communities in providing services for their children and youth;
  (12) To review and develop an integrated state plan for services provided to children and youth in this state through state programs;
  (13) To provide technical assistance and consultation to members of the council and local governments, particularly those involved in providing services to their children and youth;
  (14) To facilitate elimination of unnecessary or duplicative efforts, programs, and services; and
  (15) To do any and all things necessary and proper to enable it to perform wholly and adequately its duties and to exercise the authority granted to it.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 290,§ 21, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 49, eff. 2/24/2013.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 562,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2008.
