# § 49-5-223. Developing and updating plan; requirements; information to be collected

(a) The State Plan for the Coordinated System of Care shall be based upon the projected need for services for a five-year period. The plan shall:
  (1) Be based upon the principles delineated in Code Section 49-5-222;
  (2) Be based on a case management system with assigned case managers;
  (3) Consider nonresidential services including case management, prevention, early identification, assessment, outpatient treatment, home based services, day treatment, and emergency services;
  (4) Consider residential services including therapeutic foster care, therapeutic group care, independent living services, residential treatment care, and inpatient hospitalization;
  (5) Include mechanisms for handling conflict resolution among the various responsible agencies;
  (6) Provide a mechanism to coordinate local resources with all involved state agencies;
  (7) Develop specific guidelines for the development and submission of regional interagency plans based on the principles in Code Section 49-5-222;
  (8) Provide for the coordination of budget, where possible; for the publication of joint costs of the comprehensive plan; and for a statement on budget recommendations;
  (9) Identify gaps in service;
  (10) Identify needed policy revisions; and
  (11) Recommend priorities for the continuation or development of programs and resources.
(b) In developing the plan, the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and the Department of Education shall collect information on the population currently being served and the population projected to be served.
(c) The plan shall be updated annually.
(d) The first plan shall be put into implementation by July 1, 1991.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
