# § 49-5-225. Local interagency committees; membership; duties

(a) At least one local interagency committee shall be established for each region of the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities whose permanent membership shall include a local representative from each of the following:
  (1) The community mental health agency responsible for coordinating children's services;
  (2) The Division of Family and Children Services of the Department of Human Services;
  (3) The Department of Juvenile Justice;
  (4) The Department of Public Health;
  (5) A member of the special education staff of the local education agency; and
  (6) The Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency.
(b) In addition to the permanent members, the local interagency committee reviewing the case of a child or adolescent may include as ad hoc members the special education administrator of the school district serving the child or adolescent, the parents of the child or adolescent, and caseworkers from any involved agencies.
(c) The local interagency committees shall:
  (1) Staff cases and review and modify as needed decisions about placement of children and adolescents in out-of-home treatment or placement, monitor each child's progress, facilitate prompt return to the child's home when possible, develop a reintegration plan shortly after a child's admission to a treatment program, review the individual plan for the child or adolescent and amend the plan if necessary, and ensure that services are provided in the least restrictive setting consistent with effective services; and
  (2) Be the focal point for the regional plan, if any.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 608,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-27, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 1-24, eff. 7/1/2002.
