# § 49-5-25. Maternity supportive housing residences; registration; requirements

(a)
  (1) On and after July 1, 2022, all maternity supportive housing residences shall register in accordance with this Code section by submitting an application to the department upon forms furnished by the department. The form furnished by the department shall require the name, address, and telephone number of the maternity supportive housing residence and emergency contact information.
  (2) A registrant shall be required to pay an annual registration fee of $250.00 to the department.
  (3) The department shall issue a registration certificate, valid for one year, to a maternity supportive housing residence upon receipt of an application for registration, payment of the registration fee, and notarized attestation by the applicant, along with applicable supporting documentation, that the maternity supportive housing residence:
    (A) Has written policies and procedures for admission, intake, and record keeping;
    (B) Is in compliance with applicable residential building codes;
    (C) Has property insurance coverage on the residence; and
    (D) Has the ability to provide, either directly or through partnerships with local nonprofits or government agencies and programs, assistance with wraparound services such as nutritional support, childcare, transportation, and vocational training.
(b) The department shall not have the authority to implement rules and regulations for the registration of maternity supportive housing residences but shall have the authority to maintain any records submitted by a residence pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) No county, municipality, or consolidated government shall, by rule or ordinance, constrain the establishment or operation of maternity supportive housing residences or place occupancy requirements on such residences that would not apply to a single family living in the residence.
(d) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require a maternity home to register with the department pursuant to this Code section or for a maternity supportive housing residence to obtain a license or permit as a maternity home or to meet the requirements of a maternity home.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 787,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2022.
