# § 49-5-134. Advisory board established; membership; officers and committees; compensation

(a) There is established an advisory board to the office which shall consist of at least 15 members appointed by the Governor who as a group have training, experience, or special knowledge concerning the prevention and treatment of child abuse and neglect, emotional disability, foster care, teenage pregnancy, juvenile delinquency, law enforcement, pediatrics, health care, drug treatment and rehabilitation, early childhood, primary and secondary education, or the administration of juvenile justice.
(b) At least one-fifth of the members of the advisory board shall be under the age of 24 at the time of their appointment, and at least three members shall have been or shall currently be under the jurisdiction of the juvenile justice system or the foster care system. A single member may fulfill both of the above requirements.
(c) Membership on the advisory board does not constitute public office and no member shall be disqualified from holding public office by reason of his or her membership.
(d) The advisory board shall elect a chairperson from among its membership. The advisory board may elect such other officers and committees as it considers appropriate.
(e) Members shall serve without compensation, although each member of the advisory board shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of his or her duties from funds available to the office. Such reimbursement shall be limited to all travel and other expenses necessarily incurred through service on the advisory board, in compliance with travel rules and regulations. However, in no case shall a member of the advisory board be reimbursed for expenses incurred in the member's capacity as the representative of another state agency.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 562,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2008.
