# § 49-5-12.3. Annual inspection of child welfare agency

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Affected agency" means any state agency, department, division, or office which requires a license or commission from the department for child welfare agencies, including, but not limited to, the Division of Family and Children Services, the Department of Juvenile Justice, the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities, or the Department of Community Health.
  (2) "Annual inspection" means an inspection of a child welfare agency's facility, books, minutes, financial statements, files, employees, programs, and contracts to ensure contract compliance and licensure compliance.
  (3) "Child welfare agency" means any child-caring institution, child-placing agency, children's transition care center, or maternity home.
  (4) "Contract compliance" means adherence to the terms of a contract a child welfare agency has with an affected agency to provide child welfare services.
  (5) "Licensure compliance" means adherence to licensing or commissioning requirements established pursuant to and in accordance with Code Section 49-5-12.
(b) The department shall ensure that the annual inspection of each child welfare agency is performed by all affected agencies in a singular coordinated manner. Affected agencies shall not duplicate the annual inspection but shall cooperate and assist the department with the annual inspection. Affected agencies shall share the results of the annual inspection with other applicable affected agencies.
(c) The annual inspection shall not occur sooner than 330 days or later than 390 days after the date on which the last annual inspection began and shall not exceed five days. Affected agencies may reduce the extent of the annual inspection by reducing the frequency or the extent of the inspection for contract compliance when the child welfare agency has shown an exceptional history of contract compliance as determined upon past scores; provided, however, that such reduction does not violate federal law, court order, or settlement agreement.
(d) A child welfare agency may contest the results of an annual inspection, in accordance with department rules, by filing a written appeal with the affected agency within ten days of receipt of the affected agency's annual inspection report. Within ten days of receipt of a child welfare agency's written appeal of the annual inspection, the affected agency shall hold a meeting with the child welfare agency. The meeting shall be for the parties to discuss the annual inspection.
(e) The annual inspection shall not limit the ability of affected agencies and other state departments, divisions, and agencies to ensure the safety and well-being of children in the care of child welfare agencies or to inspect, investigate, or respond as required by court order, settlement agreement, or federal law.
(f) In consultation with other affected agencies, the department shall promulgate rules and regulations consistent with this Code section, including establishing criteria which must be met in order for a child welfare agency to contest or appeal an evaluation.
(g) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to affect the ability of any affected agency, in its sole discretion, to contract with any child welfare agency or to exercise the rights of the affected agency under the terms and conditions of any existing contract with a child welfare agency.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 49, eff. 5/9/2017.
Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 597,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2016.
