# § 49-5-4.1. Child welfare agency public scorecard established

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Affected agency" means any state agency, department, division, or office which requires a license or commission from the department for child welfare agencies, including, but not limited to, the Division of Family and Children Services, Department of Human Services, Department of Juvenile Justice, Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities, or Department of Community Health.
  (2) "Child welfare agency" means any child-caring institution, child-placing agency, children's transition care center, or maternity home.
  (3) "Services" means direct care, treatment, custodial responsibilities, or any combination thereof provided for children.
(b) The Department of Human Services, in conjunction with other affected agencies and representatives of child welfare agencies, shall establish a child welfare agency public scorecard to score child welfare agencies. Affected agencies shall cooperate with the department to develop and establish the child welfare agency public scorecard.
(c) The public scorecard for child welfare agencies and any explanation for the basis of any score on the scorecard shall be published in a single location on a website for public review. Such website shall provide scores for each child welfare agency by the affected agency that is responsible for the regulation of or contracting with each particular child welfare agency. The score shall be posted within 30 days of the completion of an inspection, or if appealed pursuant to subsection (e) of this Code section, the revised score, if any, shall be posted within 30 days of the conclusion of the appeal.
(d) The scores shall be based on an established published formula with weight appropriately given for each agency's compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws; rules; contracts; court orders; measures of treatment; behavioral, vocational, and educational outcomes for persons receiving services; and other pertinent information, based on empirical evidence to the greatest extent possible.
(e) The department shall provide child welfare agencies with advanced written notice of the scores to be posted. A child welfare agency may contest a score in accordance with department rules by filing a written appeal with the department within ten days from receipt of such notice. If a child welfare agency contests such score, the department shall note on the website that the score is under appeal, until such appeal is concluded. Within ten days of receipt of a child welfare agency's written contest of a score, the department shall hold a meeting with the child welfare agency and any affected agency whose score is contested. The meeting shall be for the parties to discuss the score and basis for the score. Within 30 days after the meeting, the commissioner's designee shall issue written notice confirming or revising the score. After issuance of such written notice, the child welfare agency may contest the score as a contested case under Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," except that hearings held relating to such action by the department may be closed to the public if the hearing officer determines that an open hearing would be detrimental to the physical or mental health of any child who will testify at such hearing.
(f) In consultation with other affected agencies, the department shall promulgate rules and regulations consistent with this Code section, including establishing criteria which must be met in order for a child welfare agency to contest or appeal a score.
(g) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to affect the ability of any affected agency, in its sole discretion, to contract with any child welfare agency or to exercise the rights of the affected agency under the terms and conditions of any existing contract with a child welfare agency.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 49, eff. 3/1/2017.
Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 597,§ 5, eff. 3/1/2017.
