# § 49-5-92. Preliminary hearing; department order; interim department actions

(a) A request for a preliminary hearing shall be made in writing within five days from the time of service, excepting weekends. The request must be made to the representative of the department designated in the order. Unless a request is made to appear in person, the preliminary hearing shall consist of an administrative review of the record, written evidence submitted by the institution affected, and a preliminary written argument in support of its contentions.
(b) If a request is made to appear in person at the preliminary hearing, the institution shall provide the name and address of the person or persons, if any, who will be representing the institution in the preliminary hearing.
(c) Upon receipt of a request for a preliminary hearing, the department shall set and give notice of the date, time, and location of the preliminary hearing. The preliminary hearing shall be held as soon as possible after a request therefor but in no event later than 72 hours after such request, provided that an institution may request that such hearing be held earlier; provided, however, that in no event will a hearing be held on a weekend or holiday.
(d) If a personal appearance is requested, the preliminary hearing shall consist of a review of the evidence in the record, any additional evidence introduced at the hearing, and any arguments made. A recording shall be made of the hearing.
(e) The department shall, where practicable, issue an immediate oral order and shall, in all instances, issue a written order within four business days after the close of the hearing.
(f) Pending final appeal of the validity of any emergency order issued as provided in this Code section, such emergency order shall remain in full effect until vacated or rescinded by the commissioner or his designee.
(g) The department is not precluded from other actions permitted by other laws or regulations during the time an emergency order is in force.
