# § 49-5-69. Employment requirements; suspension or revocation of license or criminal penalty for violations

(a) Before a person may become an employee other than a director of any center after that center has received a license, that center shall require that person to obtain a satisfactory preliminary records check. The center shall maintain documentation in the employee's personnel file, which is available to the department upon request, which reflects that a satisfactory preliminary criminal records check was received before the employee began working with children. If the preliminary records check for any potential employee other than the director reveals a criminal record of any kind, such potential employee shall not be allowed to begin working until either such potential employee has obtained satisfactory state and national fingerprint records check determinations or has had the unsatisfactory preliminary or fingerprint records check determination reversed in accordance with Code Section 49-5-73. If either the preliminary or state or national fingerprint records determination is unsatisfactory, the center shall, after receiving notification of the determination, take such steps as are necessary so that such person is no longer an employee. Any potential employee other than the director who receives a satisfactory preliminary records check determination shall not be required to obtain a fingerprint records check determination except as permitted in accordance with subsection (c) of this Code section.
(b) A license is subject to suspension or revocation and the department may refuse to issue a license if a director or employee does not undergo the records and fingerprint checks applicable to that director or employee and receive satisfactory determinations.
(c) After the issuance of a license, the department may require a fingerprint records check on any director or employee to confirm identification for records search purposes, when the department has reason to believe the employee has a criminal record that renders the employee ineligible to have contact with children in the center, or during the course of a child abuse investigation involving the director or employee.
(d) No center may hire any person as an employee unless there is on file in the center an employment history and a satisfactory preliminary records check or, if the preliminary records check determination revealed a criminal record of any kind as to such person, either satisfactory state and satisfactory national records check determinations for that person or proof that an unsatisfactory determination has been reversed in accordance with Code Section 49-5-73.
(e) A director of a facility having an employee whom that director knows or should reasonably know to have a criminal record that renders the employee ineligible to have contact with children in the center shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 49, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 565, § 14, eff. 10/1/2004
