# § 49-5-67. Fingerprint records check application for director of existing facility; preliminary records check for employees; annual license

As an alternative to the requirements set out in this article pertaining to obtaining preliminary criminal records check determinations through the department for employees, foster parents, and adults residing in a foster care home, but not including directors of centers, centers may obtain GCIC information through local law enforcement agencies. The center shall be responsible for reviewing the GCIC information obtained for the potential employee, or foster parent or other adult residing in the foster care home, and making a written determination that the individual does not have a criminal record as defined in this article. This written determination, together with all supporting documentation received from any law enforcement agency, must be maintained in the center's file and available for inspection by the department. This satisfactory determination must be made before the employee or foster parent begins any duties for the center. However, where there is an urgent need for an emergency temporary employee to work at a center's facility in order to avoid immediate noncompliance with staffing requirements, such center may utilize the applicant as an emergency temporary employee after applying for the preliminary records check through the local law enforcement agency and completing the affidavit. In such emergency situations, the director of the center must complete an affidavit, with all supporting documentation attached thereto, stating that the GCIC information has been requested through an identified local law enforcement agency and that the results were not immediately available to the center prior to assigning the employee to work with children at the center's facility in order to avoid immediate noncompliance with staffing ratios. The affidavit with supporting documentation must be maintained in the center's file on the individual and available to the department for inspection. The director shall review the GCIC information upon receipt, but in no case shall an emergency temporary employee be permitted to continue working for more than three days without having a satisfactory determination made by the director and entered into the center's file on the employee with all supporting documentation. The department shall promulgate rules and regulations limiting the extent to which centers are authorized to use emergency temporary employees in accordance with this Code section. Foster parents and adults residing in a foster care home utilized by child-placing agencies shall never be utilized as emergency temporary employees of the child-placing agency. Employees, emergency temporary employees, foster parents, and other adults required to have records checks who are utilized by centers are subject to all other requirements set forth in this article. Where the department has reason to question the validity of the GCIC information or the satisfactory determination made by the center, the department may require the employee, emergency temporary employee, foster parent, or other adult to submit a preliminary criminal records check application through the department together with appropriate fees.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 465, § 3, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 565, § 13, eff. 10/1/2004
