# § 49-5-91. Emergency orders; corrective orders; monitors

(a) Emergency orders may be issued by the commissioner or his designee pursuant to findings by the department pursuant to surveys, inspections, or investigations, which are required or permitted by law, that departmental rules and regulations are being violated which threaten the health, safety, or welfare of children in care.
(b)
  (1)
    (A) The commissioner may order the emergency relocation of residents from a child-caring institution other than a day-care facility subject to licensure under this chapter when the commissioner has determined that the residents are subject to an imminent and substantial danger.
    (B) When an order is issued under this subsection, the commissioner shall provide for:
      (i) Notice to the resident, his next of kin or guardian, and, where appropriate, his physician, of the emergency relocation and the reasons therefor;
      (ii) Relocation to the nearest appropriate child-caring institution; and
      (iii) Other protection designed to ensure the welfare and, when possible, the desires of the resident and his next of kin or guardian.
  (2)
    (A) The commissioner or his designee may order the emergency placement of a monitor or monitors in a facility upon a finding that department rules and regulations are being violated which threaten the health, safety, or welfare of children in care and when one or more of the following conditions are present:
      (i) The facility is operating without a permit;
      (ii) The department has denied application for permit or has initiated action to revoke the existing permit of the facility; or
      (iii) Children are suspected of being subjected to injury or life-threatening situations or the health or safety of the child or children is in danger.
    (B) A monitor may be placed in a facility for no more than ten consecutive calendar days, during which time the monitor shall observe conditions and regulatory compliance with any recommended remedial action of the department. Upon expiration of the ten-day period, should the conditions warrant, the initial ten-day period may be extended for an additional ten-day period. The monitor shall report to the department. The monitor shall not assume any administrative responsibility within the facility, nor shall the monitor be liable for any actions of the facility. The salary and related costs and travel and subsistence allowance as defined by department policy of placing a monitor in a facility shall be reimbursed to the department by the facility, unless the order placing the monitor is determined to be invalid in a contested case or by final adjudication by a court of competent jurisdiction, in which event the cost shall be paid by the department.
  (3)
    (A) The commissioner may order the emergency prohibition of admissions to a child-caring institution other than a day-care facility subject to licensure under this chapter when residents of an institution are in imminent and substantial danger or the institution has failed to correct a violation of departmental permit rules or regulations within a reasonable period of time, as specified in the department's corrective order, and the violation:
      (i) Could jeopardize the health and safety of the residents in the institution if allowed to remain uncorrected; or
      (ii) Is a repeat violation over a 12 month period.
    (B) Admission to an institution may be suspended until the violation has been corrected or until the department has determined that the institution has undertaken the action necessary to effect correction of the violation.
(c) An emergency order shall contain the following:
  (1) The scope of the order;
  (2) The reasons for the issuance of the order;
  (3) The effective date of the order if other than the date the order is issued;
  (4) The person to whom questions regarding the order are to be addressed; and
  (5) Notice of the right to a preliminary hearing.
(d) Unless otherwise provided in the order, an emergency order shall become effective upon its service. Service of an emergency order may be made upon the owner of the facility, the director of the facility, or any other agent, employee, or person in charge of the facility at the time of the service of the order.
(e) Prior to issuing an emergency order to order the emergency relocation of residents, to prohibit admissions, or to require placement of a monitor in a facility which has been classified by the department as a child-caring institution or child welfare agency, the commissioner or his designee may consult with persons knowledgeable in the field of child care and a representative of the facility to determine if there is a potential for greater adverse effects on children in care as a result of the emergency order.
