# § 49-5-135. Powers and duties of advisory board

(a) The advisory board shall:
  (1) Meet at such times and places as it shall determine necessary or convenient to perform its duties. The advisory board shall also meet on the call of the chairperson, the director, or the Governor;
  (2) Maintain minutes of its meetings;
  (3) Adopt rules and regulations for the transaction of its business;
  (4) In consultation with the office, establish criteria for determining eligibility for receipt of disbursements from the fund;
  (5) Review applications for disbursements of available money from the fund for child abuse and neglect prevention purposes;
  (6) In consultation with the office, administer federal assistance funds for the purposes mentioned in this article, including but not limited to funds under the Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention Act;
  (7) Maintain records of all expenditures of the funds received as gifts and donations, and disbursements made, from the fund and from other state and federal funds;
  (8) Conform to the standards and requirements prescribed by the state accounting officer pursuant to Chapter 5B of Title 50;
  (9) Using the combined expertise and experience of its members, provide regular advice and counsel to the director to enable the office to carry out its statutory duties under this article; and
  (10) Carry out such duties of the office as may be required by federal law or regulation so as to enable the state to receive and disburse federal funds for child abuse prevention and treatment and juvenile delinquency prevention and treatment.
(b) The advisory board may make timely recommendations to the director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the Department of Human Services regarding the disbursement of available money from the State Children's Trust Fund after appropriation thereof to an entity or program eligible pursuant to the criteria of the office exclusively to fund a private nonprofit or public organization in the development or operation of a prevention program if all of the following conditions are met:
  (1) The organization demonstrates broad based community involvement emphasizing volunteer efforts and demonstrates expertise in child abuse prevention issues;
  (2) The organization demonstrates a willingness and ability to provide program models and consultation to organizations and communities regarding program development and maintenance; and
  (3) Other conditions that the board may deem appropriate.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 290,§ 22, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 562,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 176, § 1, eff. 4/1/2001.
