# § 40-11-13. Definitions

(1) "Day" means a business day unless otherwise stated and shall not include Saturdays, Sundays, and legal holidays recognized by the state.
(2) "Department" means the Department of Revenue or any entity that has an agreement with such department to serve as an authorized entity to access information relating to motor vehicle ownership and disseminate such information upon request and which is identified as such an authorized entity on the website of the Department of Revenue.
(3) "Motor vehicle" means every trailer and vehicle which is self-propelled.
(4) "Owner" means any secured interest holder with a current interest in a motor vehicle and person listed on the registration of a motor vehicle found in the records of the department or in the records of the state where the vehicle is registered.
(5) "Paid private parking lot" means private property where the owner or operator of a motor vehicle pays a valuable consideration for the right to park in such location.
(6) "Repair facility" means any person maintaining physical custody of a motor vehicle for repairs that have been requested or authorized by an owner or by an insurance company acting on behalf of an owner.
(7) "Salvage dealer" means any person taking possession of a motor vehicle from or upon request from an insurance company which is damaged to the extent that its restoration to an operable condition would require the replacement of two or more major component parts or for which the insurance company has paid a total loss claim and has been unable to obtain a certificate of title.
(8) "Secured interest holder" means a secured party within the meaning of Code Section 11-9-102 or a person with a perfected encumbrance pertaining to an interest in a motor vehicle.
(9) "Towing and storage firm" means any person regulated by the Department of Public Safety and in compliance with requirements set forth in Code Section 44-1-13 who removes a motor vehicle from private or public property with or without the consent of the motor vehicle owner or authorized user and provides storage for such motor vehicle after removal.
(10) "Trailer" means a vehicle with or without motive power designed to be drawn by a motor vehicle; provided, however, that such term shall not include a mobile home as such term is set forth in Code Section 8-2-160 unless such vehicle was left unattended on public property and its removal was requested by a peace officer.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 275,§ 5, eff. 9/1/2019.
