# § 40-11-1. Definitions

(1) "Abandoned motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle or trailer:
  (A) Which has been left by the owner or some person acting for the owner with an automobile dealer, repairman, or wrecker service for repair or for some other reason and has not been called for by such owner or other person within a period of 30 days after the time agreed upon; or within 30 days after such vehicle is turned over to such dealer, repairman, or wrecker service when no time is agreed upon; or within 30 days after the completion of necessary repairs;
  (B) Which is left unattended on a public street, road, or highway or other public property for a period of at least five days and when it reasonably appears to a law enforcement officer that the individual who left such motor vehicle unattended does not intend to return and remove such motor vehicle. However, on the state highway system, any law enforcement officer may authorize the immediate removal of vehicles posing a threat to public health or safety or to mitigate congestion;
  (C) Which has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a law enforcement officer and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone having paid all reasonable current charges for such towing and storage;
  (D) Which has been lawfully towed onto the property of another at the request of a property owner on whose property the vehicle was abandoned and left there for a period of not less than 30 days without anyone having paid all reasonable current charges for such towing and storage; or
  (E) Which has been left unattended on private property for a period of not less than 30 days.
(2) "Motor vehicle" or "vehicle" means a motor vehicle or trailer.
(3) "Owner" or "owners" means the registered owner, the owner as recorded on the title, lessor, lessee, security interest holders, and all lienholders as shown on the records of the Department of Revenue or the records from the vehicle's state of registration.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 246,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 40, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 21-1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 40, eff. 4/18/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 752, § 1, eff. 1/1/2003
