# § 33-63-7. Cancellation

(a) Guaranteed asset protection waiver agreements may be cancelable or noncancelable after the free look period. Guaranteed asset protection waivers must provide that if a borrower cancels a waiver within the free look period, the borrower will be entitled to a full refund of the purchase price, provided no benefits have been paid; or in the event benefits have been paid, the borrower may receive a full or partial refund if the waiver so provides.
(b) In the event of a borrower's cancellation of the guaranteed asset protection waiver or early termination of the finance agreement, after the agreement has been in effect beyond the free look period, the borrower may be entitled to a refund of any unearned portion of the purchase price of the waiver unless the waiver provides otherwise. In order to receive a refund, the borrower, in accordance with any applicable terms of the waiver, must provide a written request to the creditor, administrator, or other party within 90 days after the borrower's decision to cancel the waiver or the occurrence of the event terminating the finance agreement.
(c) If the cancellation of a guaranteed asset protection waiver occurs as a result of a default under the finance agreement or the repossession of the motor vehicle associated with the finance agreement, or any other termination of the finance agreement, any refund due may be paid directly to the creditor or administrator and applied as set forth in subsection (d) of this Code section.
(d) Any cancellation refund under subsection (a), (b), or (c) of this Code section may be applied by the creditor as a reduction of the amount owed under the finance agreement unless the borrower can show that the finance agreement has been paid in full.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 771,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
