# § 33-31-9. Premiums; refunds and credits

(a) Any insurer, subject to the power of the Commissioner to disapprove the form as provided in Code Section 33-31-8, may revise its schedules of premium rates from time to time and shall file such revised schedules with the Commissioner. Premiums charged by an insurer shall be deemed to be reasonable and in compliance with this chapter and this title if the rate utilized in the calculation of the premium has been approved by the Commissioner. No insurer shall charge premiums for credit life insurance or credit accident and sickness insurance which exceed the premium rate then on file with the Commissioner, except that for the second and subsequent years of insurance provided for the debtors of a creditor it may charge a premium in excess of such maximum if such increase is approved by the Commissioner because of unfavorable claims experience. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prohibit an insurer from decreasing the premium rate on the insurance provided for the debtors of a creditor for the second and subsequent years of insurance.
(b) The amount collected by the creditor from the debtor for any credit life insurance or any credit accident and sickness insurance shall be consistent with the premium rate charged by the insurer. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to legalize any charge illegal under any statute or rule of law governing credit transactions.
(c) Each individual policy, notice of proposed insurance, or group certificate of credit life insurance and credit accident and sickness insurance shall provide that, in the event of termination of the insurance prior to the scheduled maturity date of the indebtedness, any refund of premium due shall be calculated as of the date the indebtedness terminated and be paid or credited promptly to the person entitled to such refund; provided, however, that the Commissioner shall prescribe a minimum refund and no refund which would be less than such minimum need be made. The formula to be used in computing a refund shall be filed with and approved by the Commissioner. It shall be the obligation of the insured to notify the insurer of the early payoff of the indebtedness which is covered by the insurance.
(c.1) Each individual policy, notice of proposed insurance, or group certificate of credit life insurance and credit accident and sickness insurance issued shall provide a notice on the face of such policy, notice, or certificate in at least 10 point type that it is the obligation of the insured to notify the insurer of any early payoff of the indebtedness which is covered by the insurance.
(d) If a creditor requires a debtor to make a payment in connection with credit life insurance or credit accident and sickness insurance and an individual policy or group certificate of insurance is not issued, the creditor shall immediately give written notice to the debtor and shall promptly make an appropriate credit to the account.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 107, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 33, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 117,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2005.
