# § 33-48-2. Definitions

(1) "Control" or "controlled" shall have the same meaning as provided in paragraph (3) of Code Section 33-13-1, relating to definitions used with regard to insurance company holding systems.
(2) "Independent casualty actuary" means a casualty actuary who is a member of the American Academy of Actuaries and who is not affiliated with; an employee, principal, or direct or indirect owner of; or in any way controlled by the insurer or producer.
(3) "Licensed property and casualty insurer" or "insurer" means any person, firm, association, or corporation duly licensed to transact a property and casualty insurance business in this state and which issues policies covered by Chapter 36 of this title. The following, inter alia, are not licensed property and casualty insurers for the purposes of this chapter:
  (A) All nonadmitted insurers;
  (B) All risk retention groups as defined in the Superfund Amendments Reauthorization Act of 1986, P.L. No. 99-499, 100 Stat. 1613 (1986) and the Risk Retention Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 3901, et seq. (1982 & Supp. 1986) and Chapter 40 of this title;
  (C) All residual market pools and joint underwriting authorities or associations; and
  (D) All captive insurers as defined in Chapter 41 of this title.
(4) "Producer" means an insurance agent or broker or agents or brokers or any other person, firm, association, or corporation, when, for any compensation, commission, or other thing of value, such person, firm, association, or corporation acts or aids in any manner in soliciting, negotiating, or procuring the making of any insurance contract on behalf of an insured other than himself or itself.
(5) "Reinsurance intermediary" means any person, firm, association, or corporation who acts as a producer in soliciting, negotiating, or procuring the making of any reinsurance contract or binder on behalf of a ceding insurer or acts as a producer in accepting any reinsurance contract or binder on behalf of an assuming insurer.
(6) "Violation" means, for purposes of this chapter, a finding by the Commissioner that:
  (A) The controlling producer did not materially comply with Code Section 33-48-3;
  (B) The controlled insurer, with respect to business placed by the controlling producer, engaged in a pattern of charging premiums that were lower than those being charged by such insurer or other insurers for similar risks written during the same period and placed by noncontrolling producers. When determining whether premiums were lower than those prevailing in the market, the Commissioner shall take into consideration applicable industry or actuarial standards at the time the business was written;
  (C) The controlling producer failed to maintain records, sufficient:
    (i) To demonstrate that such producer's dealings with its controlled insurer were fair and equitable and in compliance with Chapter 13 of this title; or
    (ii) To accurately disclose the nature and details of its transactions with the controlled insurer, including such information as is necessary to support the charges or fees to the respective parties;
  (D) The controlled insurer, with respect to business placed by the controlling producer, either failed to establish or deviated from its underwriting procedures;
  (E) The controlled insurer's capitalization at the time the business was placed by the controlling producer and with respect to such business was not in compliance with criteria established by the Commissioner or this title; or
  (F) The controlling producer or the controlled insurer failed to comply substantially with Chapter 13 of this title and any rules and regulations promulgated by the Commissioner pursuant to such chapter.
