# § 48-8-260. Definitions

(1) "Intergovernmental agreement" means a contract entered into pursuant to Article IX, Section III, Paragraph I of the Constitution.
(2) "Mass transportation" means any mode of transportation serving the general public which is appropriate to transport people by highways or rail.
(3) "Qualified municipality" means a qualified municipality as defined in paragraph (4) of Code Section 48-8-110 which is located wholly or partly within a special district.
(4) "Transportation purposes" means and includes:
  (A) Roads, bridges, public transit, rails, airports, buses, seaports, including without limitation road, street, and bridge purposes pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 48-8-121, and all accompanying infrastructure and services necessary to provide access to these transportation facilities, including new general obligation debt and other multiyear obligations issued to finance such purposes;
  (B) The retirement of previously incurred general obligation debt with respect only to such purposes as identified in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph;
  (C) A capital outlay project or projects under subparagraph (a)(1)(M) of Code Section 48-8-111, with respect only to such purposes as identified in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph; or
  (D) Any combination of two or more of the foregoing.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 578,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2024.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 54,§ 1, eff. 5/1/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 336,§ 2-1, eff. 4/26/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 301,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 46,§ 7-5, eff. 7/1/2015.
See 2024 Ga. Laws 578, § 7.
