# § 48-8-201. Intergovernmental contract for distribution of tax proceeds; approval of referendum by voters; cap on aggregate amount of tax; rate

(a)
  (1) In any county in which the provisions of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-6 will be applicable if the tax under Part 1 of Article 3 of this chapter is imposed pursuant to subparagraph (a)(1)(D) of Code Section 48-8-111 in whole or in part for the purpose or purposes of a water capital outlay project or projects, a sewer capital outlay project or projects, a water and sewer capital outlay project or projects, or a combination of such projects, the governing authority of a municipality, the majority of which is located wholly or partially in such county, may deliver or mail a written copy of a resolution of such municipal governing authority calling for the imposition by the county of the tax under Part 1 of Article 3 of this chapter pursuant to subparagraph (a)(1)(D) of Code Section 48-8-111 in whole or in part for the purpose or purposes of a water capital outlay project or projects, a sewer capital outlay project or projects, a water and sewer capital outlay project or projects, water and sewer projects and costs, or any combination thereof.
  (2) Within ten days following the date of delivery of such resolution to the governing authority of such county, the governing authorities of such county and municipality may enter into an intergovernmental contract as authorized by Article IX, Section III of the Constitution which shall specify the allocation of the proceeds of the tax between such county and municipality according to the ratio the population of such municipality bears to the population of such county according to the United States decennial census of 2000 or any future such census so that such municipality's share of the total net proceeds shall be the percentage of the total population of such municipality divided by the total population of such county. Such intergovernmental contract shall specify that the proceeds allocated to the municipality shall only be expended for water and sewer projects and costs.
  (3) Immediately following the entering into of the intergovernmental contract under paragraph (2) of this subsection, the governing authority of such county may select the next practicable date authorized under Code Section 21-2-540 for conducting a special election on the question of imposing such tax under Part 1 of Article 3 of this chapter. The governing authority of such county shall notify the county election superintendent by forwarding to the superintendent a copy of the resolution of the governing authority of such municipality calling for the imposition of the tax in such county. Following receipt of the resolution, the election superintendent shall issue the appropriate call for an election for the purpose of submitting the question of the imposition of the tax to the voters of such county in the manner specified in Code Section 48-8-111. If approved in such referendum, the tax shall be levied and imposed as provided in this Code section and Part 1 of Article 3 of this chapter.
(b) If the governing authority of the county takes no action under paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section, it shall provide notice thereof by resolution to the governing authority of the municipality not later than ten days following the date of delivery of such municipality's resolution to the county under subsection (a) of this Code section. Upon receipt by the governing authority of the municipality of such county resolution or if timely notice of no action is not provided by the governing authority of the county to the governing authority of the municipality or if the county referendum is conducted but is not approved by the voters, the governing authority of any municipality in this state may, subject to the requirement of referendum approval and the other requirements of this article, immediately commence proceedings to seek to impose within the municipality a special sales and use tax for a limited period of time for the purpose of funding water and sewer projects and costs. Any tax imposed under this article shall be at the rate of 1 percent. Except as otherwise provided in this article, a tax imposed under this article shall correspond to the tax imposed by Article 1 of this chapter.
(c) In the event a tax imposed under this article is imposed only by the municipality:
  (1) No item or transaction which is not subject to taxation under Article 1 of this chapter shall be subject to a tax imposed under this article, except that a tax imposed under this article shall apply to:
    (A) Sales of motor fuels as prepaid local tax as that term is defined in Code Section 48-8-2;
    (B) The sale of food and food ingredients and alcoholic beverages as provided for in Code Section 48-8-3;
    (C) The sale of natural or artificial gas used directly in the production of electricity which is subsequently sold, notwithstanding paragraph (70) of Code Section 48-8-3; and
    (D) The furnishing for value to the public of any room or rooms, lodgings, or accommodations which is subject to taxation under Article 3 of Chapter 13 of this title; and
  (2) A tax imposed under this article shall not apply to the sale of motor vehicles.
(d) On and after July 1, 2007, the aggregate amount of all excise taxes imposed under paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of Code Section 48-13-51 and all sales and use taxes shall not exceed 14 percent.
(e) On or after July 1, 2015, such sales and use tax levied on sales of motor fuels as defined in Code Section 48-9-2 shall be at the rate of 1 percent of the retail sales price of the motor fuel which is not more than $3.00 per gallon.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 46,§ 5-12, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 29, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 48, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 209,§ 10, eff. 1/1/2008.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 443, § 7, eff. 4/23/2004.
