# § 48-8-82. Authority to impose joint sales and use tax; rate of tax

(a) When the imposition of a joint county and municipal sales and use tax is authorized according to the procedures provided in this article within a special district, the county whose geographical boundary is conterminous with that of the special district and each qualified municipality located wholly or partially within the special district shall levy a joint sales and use tax at the rate of 1 percent, except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section. Except as to rate, the joint tax shall correspond to the tax imposed and administered by Article 1 of this chapter. No item or transaction which is not subject to taxation by Article 1 of this chapter shall be subject to the tax levied pursuant to this article, except that the joint tax provided in this article shall be applicable to:
  (1) The sale of motor fuels as prepaid local tax as that term is defined in Code Section 48-8-2;
  (2) The sale of food and food ingredients and alcoholic beverages only to the extent provided for in paragraph (57) of Code Section 48-8-3; and
  (3) The sale or use of jet fuel as such term is defined in Code Section 48-8-2, to the extent allowed pursuant to Code Section 48-8-3.5.
(b) On or after July 1, 2015, such joint sales and use tax levied on sales of motor fuels as defined in Code Section 48-9-2 shall be at the rate of 1 percent of the retail sales price of the motor fuel which is not more than $3.00 per gallon; provided, however, that, in any consolidated government levying a joint sales and use tax at 2 percent pursuant to Code Section 48-8-96, on or after July 1, 2015, any such joint sales and use tax levied on sales of motor fuels as defined in Code Section 48-9-2 shall be at the rate of 2 percent of the retail sales price of the motor fuel which is not more than $3.00 per gallon.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2018SP1 Ga. Laws 3,§ 3-5, eff. 12/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 301,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 46,§ 5-8, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 19, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 48, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 209,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2008.
