# § 48-8-269.57. Use of tax proceeds; requirements for general obligation debt

(a)
  (1) The proceeds received from the tax shall be used by the special district or special districts exclusively for the transit projects specified in the resolution calling for imposition of the tax. When the proceeds are received by a special district authorized to levy the tax pursuant to Part 2 of this article, such proceeds shall be kept in a separate account from other funds of any county receiving proceeds of the tax and shall not in any manner be commingled with other funds of any county prior to the expenditure.
  (2) The governing authority of each county receiving any proceeds from the tax under this article shall maintain a record of each and every purpose for which the proceeds of the tax are used. A schedule shall be included in each annual audit which shows for each purpose in the resolution calling for imposition of the tax the original estimated cost, the current estimated cost if it is not the original estimated cost, amounts expended in prior years, and amounts expended in the current year. The auditor shall verify and test expenditures sufficient to provide assurances that the schedule is fairly presented in relation to the financial statements. The auditor's report on the financial statements shall include an opinion, or disclaimer of opinion, as to whether the schedule is presented fairly in all material respects in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole.
(b) No general obligation debt shall be issued in conjunction with the imposition of the tax unless the county governing authority determines that, and if the debt is to be validated it is demonstrated in the validation proceedings that, during each year in which any payment of principal or interest on the debt comes due, the county will receive from the tax net proceeds sufficient to fully satisfy such liability. General obligation debt issued under this article shall be payable first from the separate account in which are placed the proceeds received by the county from the tax. Such debt, however, shall constitute a pledge of the full faith, credit, and taxing power of the county; and any liability on such debt which is not satisfied from the proceeds of the tax shall be satisfied from the general funds of the county.
(c) The resolution calling for the imposition of the tax may specify that all of the proceeds of the tax will be used for payment of general obligation debt issued in conjunction with the imposition of the tax, and, in that event, such proceeds shall be solely for such purpose except as otherwise provided in subsection (f) of this Code section.
(d) The resolution calling for the imposition of the tax may specify that a part of the proceeds of the tax will be used for payment of general obligation debt issued in conjunction with the imposition of the tax. The resolution shall specifically state the other purposes for which such proceeds will be used. In such a case, no part of the net proceeds from the tax received in any year shall be used for such other purposes until all debt service requirements of the general obligation debt for that year have first been satisfied from the account in which the proceeds of the tax are placed.
(e) The resolution calling for the imposition of the tax may specify that no general obligation debt is to be issued in conjunction with the imposition of the tax. The resolution shall specifically state the purpose or purposes for which the proceeds will be used.
(f)
  (1)
    (A)
      (i) If the proceeds of the tax are specified to be used solely for the purpose of payment of general obligation debt issued in conjunction with the imposition of the tax authorized to be levied pursuant to Part 2 of this article, then any net proceeds of the tax in excess of the amount required for final payment of such debt may be used for additional transit projects, provided that a subsequent intergovernmental agreement meeting the requirements set forth in subsection (b) of Code Section 48-8-269.43 has been entered into. If a subsequent intergovernmental agreement required by this division is not entered into, then such excess proceeds shall be subject to and applied as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
      (ii) If the proceeds of the tax are specified to be used solely for the purpose of payment of general obligation debt issued in conjunction with the imposition of the tax authorized to be levied pursuant to Part 3 of this article, then any net proceeds of the tax in excess of the amount required for final payment of such debt may be used for additional transit projects, provided that such projects are selected from the regional transit plan and approved by the authority. If approval from the authority regarding additional transit projects to be funded with any excess net proceeds is not obtained, then such excess proceeds shall be subject to and applied as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
    (B)
      (i) If the special district receives from the tax net proceeds in excess of the maximum cost of the transit projects stated in the resolution calling for the imposition of the tax or in excess of the actual cost of such projects when the tax was authorized to be levied pursuant to Part 2 of this article, then such excess proceeds may be used for additional transit projects, provided that a subsequent intergovernmental agreement meeting the requirements set forth in subsection (b) of Code Section 48-8-269.43 has been entered into. If a subsequent intergovernmental agreement required by this division is not entered into, then such excess proceeds shall be subject to and applied as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
      (ii) If the special district receives from the tax net proceeds in excess of the maximum cost of the transit projects stated in the resolution calling for the imposition of the tax or in excess of the actual cost of such projects when the tax was authorized to be levied pursuant to Part 3 of this article, then such excess proceeds may be used for additional transit projects, provided that such projects are selected from the regional transit plan and approved by the authority. If approval from the authority regarding additional transit projects to be funded with any excess net proceeds is not obtained, then such excess proceeds shall be subject to and applied as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
  (2) Except as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection, excess proceeds shall be used solely for the purpose of reducing any indebtedness of any county within the special district other than indebtedness incurred pursuant to this article. If there is no such other indebtedness or if the excess proceeds exceed the amount of any such other indebtedness, then the excess proceeds shall next be paid into the general fund of such county, it being the intent that any funds so paid into the general fund of such county be used for the purpose of reducing ad valorem taxes.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 409,§ 1-3, eff. 1/1/2019.
