# § 48-8-14. Restrictions on state contracts with nongovernmental vendors failing or refusing to collect sales or use taxes

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "state agency" means any authority, board, department, instrumentality, institution, agency, or other unit of state government. The term "state agency" shall not include any county, municipality, or local or regional governmental authority.
(b) On or after April 12, 2005, the Department of Administrative Services and any other state agency shall not enter into a state-wide contract or agency contract for goods or services, or both, in an amount exceeding $100,000.00 with a nongovernmental vendor if the vendor or an affiliate of the vendor is a dealer as defined in Code Section 48-8-2, or meets one or more of the conditions thereunder, but fails or refuses to collect sales or use taxes levied under this chapter on its sales delivered to Georgia.
(c) The Department of Administrative Services and any other state agency may contract for goods or services, or both, with a source prohibited under subsection (b) of this Code section in the event of an emergency or where the nongovernmental vendor is the sole source of such goods or services or both.
(d) The determination of whether a vendor is a prohibited source shall be made by the Department of Revenue, which shall notify the Department of Administrative Services and any other state agency of its determination within three business days of a request for such determination.
(e) Prior to awarding a contract, the Department of Administrative Services and any other state agency to which this article applies shall provide the Department of Revenue the name of the nongovernmental vendor awarded the contract, the name of the vendor's affiliate, and the certificate of registration number as provided for under Code Section 48-8-59 for the vendor and affiliate of the vendor.
(f) The commissioner is specifically authorized to promulgate regulations to implement this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 48, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 31,§ 22, eff. 4/12/2005.
