# § 48-8-109.32. Maximum period of time of the tax; submission to voters to determine imposition of tax; ballot language; expenses of election

(a) The intergovernmental agreement required by this article shall specify the maximum period of time of the tax, to be stated in calendar years or calendar quarters not to exceed five years in total.
(b) Each such intergovernmental agreement shall prescribe that the county election superintendent shall issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting the question of the imposition of the tax authorized by this article to the voters of the county. The call for and conduct of any such election shall be in the manner authorized under Code Section 21-2-540, on a date specified by the intergovernmental agreement from among the dates allowed under paragraph (2) of subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-540. Such election superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for four weeks immediately preceding the date of the election in the legal organ of the county or in a newspaper having general circulation in the county at least equal to that of the legal organ.
(c) The exact ballot language shall be prescribed in the intergovernmental agreement which imposes the tax authorized by this article, but shall contain, at a minimum, the purpose of the tax, the rate of the tax, and the duration for which the tax shall be imposed.
(d) All persons desiring to vote in favor of imposing the tax shall vote "Yes" and all persons opposed to levying the tax shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast are in favor of imposing the tax, then the tax shall be imposed as provided in this article; otherwise, the tax shall not be imposed and the question of imposing the tax shall not again be submitted to the voters of the special district until after 12 months immediately following the month in which the election was held; provided, however, that, if an election date authorized under paragraph (2) of subsection (c) of Code Section 21-2-540 occurs during the twelfth month immediately following the month in which such election was held, the question of imposing the tax may be submitted to the voters of the special district on such date. The county election superintendent shall hold and conduct the election under the same rules and regulations as govern special elections. Such election superintendent shall canvass the returns, declare the result of the election, and certify the result to the Secretary of State and to the commissioner. The expense of the election shall be paid from county funds.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 379,§ 3-2, eff. 1/1/2025, app. to taxable years beginning on or after 1/1/2025.
