# § 48-8-78. Appropriation for freight and logistic projects

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term "freight and logistics projects" means any project for capital construction and maintenance on freight rail assets owned or leased by a common carrier regulated by the United States Surface Transportation Board and found to be an expenditure of ample consideration for a substantial public benefit pursuant to subsection (f) of Code Section 32-2-41.3.
(b) It is the intention of the General Assembly, subject to appropriations, that the funds collected under this article upon the retail purchase, retail sale, rental, storage, use, or consumption of fuel to a contract or common carrier regulated by the United States Surface Transportation Board for use exclusively in the operation of locomotives by such carrier shall be appropriated to the Department of Transportation for use exclusively on freight and logistics projects located on or connected to publicly owned roads. Such appropriation shall be allocated for freight and logistics projects, including administration costs, consistent with the Georgia Freight Railroad Program as established by Code Section 32-2-41.3. Such allocation shall take into consideration the total track miles operated within the state by a common carrier and any other factors as determined appropriate by the commissioner.
(c) If at any time the funds collected as described in subsection (b) of this Code section are ever not appropriated for two consecutive or nonconsecutive fiscal years to freight and logistics projects, as determined by the House Budget and Research Office and the Senate Budget and Evaluation Office, then the tax levied and imposed upon the retail purchase, retail sale, storage, use, or consumption of fuel to a contract or common carrier regulated by the United States Surface Transportation Board for the exclusive use in the operation of locomotives shall be reduced by 50 percent. Upon the conclusion of a third fiscal year in which an amount is not so appropriated, this Code section shall stand repealed and reserved and such sales and use tax shall cease to be collected, on the date the appropriations Act for such fiscal year becomes effective. Such budget offices shall certify any such lack of appropriation to the Code Revision Commission for purposes of updating the Code in accordance with this subsection.
(d) The Department of Transportation shall prepare, by February 1 of each year, an accounting of the funds received pursuant to this Code section and expended. The report shall be made available to the Senate Transportation Committee, the House Committee on Transportation, and to members of the public upon request.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 588,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 224,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2021.
