# § 48-8-67. Distribution of certain unidentifiable sales and use tax proceeds; limitations; powers and duties of state revenue commissioner

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "authorized recipient" means the state, special districts, counties, or municipalities, or any combination thereof, as determined by general law, applicable local constitutional amendment, or Section 25 of an Act approved March 10, 1965 (Ga. L. 1965, p. 2243), as amended, the "Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority Act of 1965," which specifies the entities to whom the commissioner is directed to distribute the proceeds of sales and use taxes.
(b) When a dealer makes a return with insufficient information to identify proceeds as being attributable to retail sales, retail purchases, rentals, storage, use, or consumption of tangible personal property or services occurring within a particular special district or particular county, the commissioner shall make reasonable efforts to obtain the information needed to make a distribution of those proceeds. When the information cannot be obtained, the commissioner shall allocate unidentifiable proceeds among the authorized recipients in the same proportion as the proceeds of the sales and use taxes are otherwise allocated and distributed to the authorized recipients. Each allocation of unidentifiable proceeds shall be calculated by determining each authorized recipient's pro rata share of identifiable proceeds collected during the same period of time in which the unidentifiable proceeds to be allocated were collected. Each authorized recipient's pro rata share of the unidentifiable proceeds for each such collection period shall be the same as that authorized recipient's pro rata share of the identifiable proceeds for the same collection period.
(c) The initial allocation of such unidentifiable proceeds shall be distributed in the manner consistent with subsection (b) of this Code section before July 1, 1998, and such allocation shall include all amounts of such unidentifiable proceeds that have been collected subsequent to June 30, 1997, and prior to April 1, 1998, and which have not been distributed by the commissioner at the time of the initial distribution. Such initial distribution of unidentifiable proceeds to an authorized recipient shall be made separate and distinct from the regular distribution of identifiable proceeds to such authorized recipient. In lieu of interest earned on such unidentifiable proceeds, an amount equivalent to 5 percent of the initial distribution amount shall be allocated and distributed by the commissioner in a similar manner, if funds are specifically appropriated for such purpose.
(d) Following the initial allocation under subsection (c) of this Code section, allocations of unidentifiable proceeds shall be made by the commissioner according to a schedule provided for by rules and regulations of the commissioner but in no event less often than twice per year. Any such subsequent distribution of unidentified proceeds to an authorized recipient shall be made separate and distinct from the regular distribution of identifiable proceeds to such authorized recipient.
(e) Information regarding proceeds distributed to authorized recipients pursuant to this Code section shall be identified by the commissioner, and such information shall be made available upon request.
(f) The department shall at the time of the first distribution of such unidentifiable proceeds provide each authorized recipient with written notice advising each authorized recipient that negotiation of the first distribution shall constitute a release and full accord and satisfaction for any and all refund requests or claims with respect to any sales and use tax collected prior to April 1, 1998, which the authorized recipient has or may have for recovery of any such tax funds. Negotiation of the first distribution shall also constitute full and complete acceptance of all the terms and conditions set forth in this Code section and shall bar any challenges to this Code section.
(g) The commissioner shall have the power and authority to promulgate such rules and regulations as shall be necessary for the effective and efficient distribution of state and local sales and use tax proceeds in accordance with this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 47,§ 2, eff. 4/27/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 145,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 31,§ 24, eff. 4/12/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 302, § 18, eff. 4/27/2001.
