# § 48-8-58. Property sold returned to dealer by purchaser; return allowances; credits and deductions; refunds of tax credit by retired dealer; failure to secure forms

(a)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "return allowance" means the amount of the sales price or purchase price refunded by the dealer to the purchaser in cash or credit. No credit shall be allowed to the dealer under this subsection for taxes collected by such dealer from the purchaser unless the taxes collected have been returned by the dealer to the purchaser.
  (2) When property sold is subsequently returned by agreement to the dealer by the purchaser, the dealer shall be entitled to credit for the tax imposed by this article with respect to the return allowance, in the manner prescribed by the commissioner, as follows:
    (A) The dealer in the original return for the taxable period in which the return of the property is allowed may deduct from the dealer's gross sales the amount of the return allowance; or
    (B) When a dealer has retired from business and has filed a final return, a claim for refund of the tax for which the dealer would be entitled to credit under this subsection may be filed within the time and in the manner prescribed under Code Section 48-2-35.
(b) The commissioner shall make available to dealers all necessary forms for filing returns and instructions to ensure a full collection from dealers and an accounting for the taxes due. Failure of any dealer to secure the commissioner's forms shall not relieve the dealer from the payment of the tax at the time and in the manner provided in this article.
(c) The commissioner shall promulgate any rules and regulations necessary to implement this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 508,§ 5, eff. 4/19/2006.
