# § 48-8-112. Effective date of tax; termination of tax; limitation on taxation; continuation of tax

(a) If the imposition of the tax is approved at the special election, the tax shall be imposed on the first day of the next succeeding calendar quarter which begins more than 80 days after the date of the election at which the tax was approved by the voters. With respect to services which are regularly billed on a monthly basis, however, the resolution shall become effective with respect to and the tax shall apply to services billed on or after the effective date specified in the previous sentence.
(b) The tax shall cease to be imposed on the earliest of the following dates:
  (1) If the resolution or ordinance calling for the imposition of the tax provided for the issuance of general obligation debt and such debt is the subject of validation proceedings, as of the end of the first calendar quarter ending more than 80 days after the date on which a court of competent jurisdiction enters a final order denying validation of such debt;
  (2) On the final day of the maximum period of time specified for the imposition of the tax; or
  (3) As of the end of the calendar quarter during which the commissioner determines that the tax will have raised revenues sufficient to provide to the county and qualified municipalities within the special district net proceeds equal to or greater than the amount specified as the estimated amount of net proceeds to be raised by the tax, unless the provisions in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) or subparagraph (b)(2)(A) of Code Section 48-8-115 are applicable, in which case the final day of the tax shall be based upon the length of time for which the tax was authorized to be levied by the referendum.
(c)
  (1) At any time no more than a single 1 percent tax under this part may be imposed within a special district.
  (2) The governing authority of a county in a special district in which a tax authorized by this part is in effect may, while the tax is in effect, adopt a resolution or ordinance calling for the reimposition of a tax as authorized by this part upon the termination of the tax then in effect; and a special election may be held for this purpose while the tax is in effect. Proceedings for the reimposition of a tax shall be in the same manner as proceedings for the initial imposition of the tax, but the newly authorized tax shall not be imposed until the expiration of the tax then in effect; provided, however, that, in the event of emergency conditions under which a county is unable to conduct a referendum so as to continue the tax then in effect without interruption, the commissioner may, if feasible administratively, waive the limitations of subsection (a) of this Code section to the minimum extent necessary so as to permit the reimposition of a tax, if otherwise approved as required under this Code section, without interruption, upon the expiration of the tax then in effect.
  (3) Following the expiration of a tax under this part, the governing authority of a county within a special district may initiate proceedings for the reimposition of a tax under this part in the same manner as provided in this part for initial imposition of such tax.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 443, § 11, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 48, eff. 4/18/2002.
