# § 48-8-200. Definitions

(1) "Building and construction materials" means all building and construction materials, supplies, fixtures, or equipment, any combination of such items, and any other leased or purchased articles when the materials, supplies, fixtures, equipment, or articles are to be utilized or consumed during construction or are to be incorporated into construction work pursuant to a bona fide written construction contract.
(2) "Dealer" means a dealer as defined in Code Section 48-8-2.
(3) "Municipality" means:
  (A) A municipality in which the average waste-water flow of such municipality is not less than 85 million gallons per day; or
  (B) A municipality that operates a waste-water system that interconnects with the waste-water system of a municipality that has an average waste-water flow that is not less than 85 million gallons per day.
(4) "Water and sewer projects and costs" means:
  (A) Any capital outlay project or projects for the development, storage, treatment, purification, or distribution of water;
  (B) Any capital outlay project or projects for storm-water and sewage collection and disposal systems;
  (C)
    (i) With respect to any project or projects provided for under subparagraph (A) or (B) of this paragraph:
      (I) Any cost of project or cost of any project as defined under paragraph (3) of Code Section 50-23-4; and
      (II) Any maintenance and operation costs.
    (ii) In no event shall any expenditure of tax proceeds pursuant to this subparagraph exceed annually an amount equal to the annual debt service payments of such municipality with respect to revenue bond indebtedness incurred for drinking water projects and storm-water and sewage collection and disposal projects; or
  (D) Any combination of any of the foregoing.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 270,§ 1, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 28, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 443, § 7, eff. 4/23/2004.
