# § 48-8-19. Ratification of Executive Order on temporary suspension of collection of tax on jet fuel

(a) The General Assembly finds that:
  (1) The annual economic impact of Georgia airports amounts to more than $62 billion per year;
  (2) Direct flights out of Hartsfield-Jackson Atlanta International Airport alone have supported nearly $11 billion in foreign investment and 42,000 jobs across the state;
  (3) Georgia's sales and use tax levy on jet fuel amounts to the fourth highest tax burden on jet fuel among states with major airport hubs, placing Georgia at a competitive disadvantage compared with major airport hubs in Florida, New York, North Carolina, and Texas, among others; and
  (4) The distribution of the proceeds of sales and use tax on jet fuel could jeopardize Georgia's legal standing and compliance with federal aviation programs.
(b) The General Assembly of Georgia hereby ratifies the Executive Order of the Governor dated July 30, 2018, and filed in the official records of the office of the Governor as Executive Order 07.30.18.01 which suspended the collection of any rate of sales and use tax as such tax applies to jet fuel. The General Assembly of Georgia hereby continues such suspension of collection indefinitely.
(c) For the time period commencing on August 1, 2018, as specified in the Executive Order of the Governor dated July 30, 2018, and filed in the official records of the office of the Governor as Executive Order 07.30.18.01, and concluding at the last moment of November 30, 2018, sales and use taxation pursuant to Code Section 48-8-30 as such tax applies to jet fuel shall be governed by the provisions of this Code section notwithstanding any provisions of Code Section 48-8-30 or any other law to the contrary.
(d) The commissioner is authorized to prescribe forms and promulgate rules and regulations deemed necessary in order to administer and effectuate this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 48, eff. 5/10/2021.
Added by 2018SP1 Ga. Laws 3,§ 2-1, eff. 11/17/2018.
