# § 48-8-3.5. Taxation on sale or use of jet fuel

(a) The sale or use of jet fuel that is pumped into an aircraft in this state and the use of jet fuel that is pumped into an aircraft in another state shall be exempt from all sales and use tax except such tax levied:
  (1) By the state pursuant to Code Section 48-8-30 at a rate that shall not exceed 4 percent;
  (2) Pursuant to Article 2 of this chapter by a jurisdiction in which a sales and use tax was levied on jet fuel on December 30, 1987, at a rate that shall not exceed the rate in effect on December 30, 1987; and
  (3) Pursuant to Section 25 of an Act approved March 10, 1965 (Ga. L. 1965, p. 2243), as amended, the "Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority Act of 1965," by a jurisdiction in which such tax was levied on jet fuel on December 30, 1987, at a rate that shall not exceed the rate in effect on December 30, 1987.
(b) For the period of time beginning December 1, 2018, and ending at the last moment of June 30, 2019, the sale or use of jet fuel that is pumped into an aircraft in this state and the use of jet fuel that is pumped into an aircraft in another state shall be exempt from the sales and use tax levied by the state pursuant to Code Section 48-8-30.
(c) To the extent required to comply with 49 U.S.C. Sections 47107(b) and 47133, revenue derived from the levy of sales and use taxes on jet fuel and other fuels sold or used at an airport for aviation purposes shall be used for a state aviation program or airport related purposes. Any portion of such revenue so derived which is not required or exceeds the amount required for purposes of such compliance with federal law may be appropriated for other purposes as provided by law.
(d) The commissioner shall adopt rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2018SP1 Ga. Laws 3,§ 3-3, eff. 12/1/2018.
