# § 48-8-203. Timing for imposition of tax following approval; termination of tax

(a)
  (1) If the imposition of the tax is approved by referendum, the tax shall be imposed on the first day of the next succeeding calendar quarter which begins more than 80 days after the date of the election at which the tax was approved by the voters.
  (2) With respect to services which are regularly billed on a monthly basis, however, the resolution or ordinance imposing the tax shall become effective with respect to and the tax shall apply to the first regular billing period coinciding with or following the effective date specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection. A certified copy of the ordinance or resolution imposing the tax shall be forwarded to the commissioner so that it will be received within five business days after certification of the election results.
(b) The tax shall cease to be imposed on the earliest of the following dates:
  (1) If the resolution or ordinance calling for the imposition of the tax provided for the issuance of general obligation debt and such debt is the subject of validation proceedings, as of the end of the first calendar quarter ending more than 80 days after the date on which a court of competent jurisdiction enters a final order denying validation of such debt;
  (2) On the final day of the maximum period of time specified for the imposition of the tax; or
  (3) As of the end of the calendar quarter during which the commissioner determines that the tax will have raised revenues sufficient to provide to the municipality net proceeds equal to or greater than the amount specified as the maximum amount of net proceeds to be raised by the tax.
(c)
  (1) No municipality shall impose at any time more than a single 1 percent tax under this article.
  (2) A municipality in which a tax authorized by this article is in effect may, while the tax is in effect, adopt a resolution or ordinance calling for a reimposition of a tax as authorized by this article upon the termination of the tax then in effect; and a referendum may be held for this purpose while the tax is in effect. Proceedings for such reimposition shall not be conducted more than six times; shall be in the same manner as proceedings for the initial imposition of the tax as provided for in Code Section 48-8-202; and shall be solely within the discretion of the governing authority of the municipality without regard to any requirement of county participation otherwise specified under subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-201. Such newly authorized tax shall not be imposed until the expiration of the tax then in effect; provided, however, that in the event of emergency conditions under which a municipality is unable to conduct a referendum so as to continue the tax then in effect without interruption, the commissioner may, if feasible administratively, waive the limitations of subsection (a) of this Code section to the minimum extent necessary so as to permit the reimposition of a tax, if otherwise approved as required under this Code section, without interruption, upon the expiration of the tax then in effect.
  (3) Following the expiration of a tax under this article which has been renewed six times under paragraph (2) of this subsection, a municipality shall not be authorized to initiate proceedings for the reimposition of a tax under this article or to reimpose such tax.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 48, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 394,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 679,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 30, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 443, § 7, eff. 4/23/2004.
