# § 48-8-39. Effect of use other than retention, demonstration, or display by giver of certificate or by processor, manufacturer, or converter

(a) If a purchaser who gives a certificate stating that property is purchased for resale makes any use of the property other than retention, demonstration, or display while holding it for sale in the regular course of business, the use shall be deemed a retail sale by the purchaser as of the time the property is first used by him and the purchase price of the property to him shall be deemed the gross receipts from the retail sale. If the sole use of the property other than retention, demonstration, or display in the regular course of business is the rental of the property while holding it for sale or the transportation of persons for hire while holding the property for sale, the purchaser may elect to include in his gross receipts either the amount of the rental charged or the total amount of the charges made by him for the transportation rather than the cost of the property to him.
(b)
  (1)
    (A) If a person who engages in the business of processing, manufacturing, or converting industrial materials into articles of tangible personal property for sale, whether as custom-made or stock items, makes any use of the article of tangible personal property other than retaining, demonstrating, or displaying it for sale, the use shall be deemed a retail sale as of the time the article is first used by such person and its fair market value at the time shall be deemed the sales price of the article, except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph.
    (B)
      (i) As used in this subparagraph, the term "total raw material cost" means the manufactured cost of floor covering samples; supplies used in the manufacturing of floor covering samples such as binding, grommets, and similar items; floor covering sample display devices such as racks, binders, and similar items; and inbound freight charges. Such term does not mean or include labor or overhead for assembling or producing samples from finished floor covering and does not mean or include outbound freight charges which may be charged to the expense account for floor covering samples.
      (ii) As used in this subparagraph, the term "floor covering sample" or "floor covering samples" includes, but is not limited to, samples of carpet floor covering, hardwood floor covering, engineered hardwood floor covering, laminate floor covering, stone floor covering, tile floor covering, vinyl floor covering, resilient floor covering, linoleum floor covering, and other floor coverings.
      (iii) For purposes of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, the fair market value of any floor covering sample shall be equal to 21.9 percent of the total raw material cost of the sample, except that the fair market value of a sample of any floor covering that is manufactured exclusively for commercial use shall be equal to 1 percent of the total raw material cost of the sample.
  (2) If the sole use of the article other than retaining, demonstrating, or displaying it for sale is the rental of the article while holding it for sale, the processor, manufacturer, or converter may elect to treat the amount of the rental charged rather than the fair market value of the article as its sales price.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 136,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 594,§ 1, eff. 4/27/2006.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 95, § 1, eff. 5/30/2003.
