# § 48-8-269.8. Authority to impose a transportation special purpose local option sales and use tax; notice; meeting; resolution

(a) After July 1, 2016, any part of a metropolitan county special district that is outside the boundaries of a metropolitan municipality special district, as provided for in Code Section 48-8-269.22, may, by following the procedures required by this part, impose for a limited period of time within such part of the metropolitan county special district a transportation special purpose local option sales and use tax, the proceeds of which shall be used only for transportation purposes.
(b) Prior to the issuance of the call for the referendum required by Code Section 48-8-269.9, the governing authority of the county in which the part of a metropolitan county special district that desires to levy a tax under this part is located shall deliver or mail a written notice to the mayor or chief elected official in each qualified municipality located within such part of the metropolitan county special district. Such notice shall contain the date, time, place, and purpose of a meeting at which the governing authority of such county and of each qualified municipality are to meet to discuss possible projects for inclusion in the referendum and the rate of tax. The notice shall be delivered or mailed at least ten days prior to the date of the meeting. The meeting shall be held at least 30 days prior to the issuance of the call for the referendum.
(c)
  (1) Upon approval of the qualified municipalities or county representing at least 60 percent of the population of the part of the metropolitan county special district not within the boundaries of a metropolitan municipality special district, the governing authority of the county, unless there is a vote against the resolution by a majority plus one of the members of such governing authority of the county, shall sign a resolution offered for such purpose and shall submit the list of transportation purposes, as approved by the qualified municipalities or county representing at least 60 percent of the population of the part of the metropolitan county special district and the question of whether the tax should be approved to electors of the part of the metropolitan county special district not within the boundaries of a metropolitan municipality special district in the next scheduled election and shall notify the county election superintendent by forwarding to the superintendent a copy of such resolution calling for the imposition of the tax. Such list, or a digest thereof, shall be available during regular business hours in the office of the county clerk and in the offices of the governing authorities of the qualified municipalities participating in the election.
  (2) The resolution authorized by paragraph (1) of this subsection shall describe:
    (A) The specific transportation purposes to be funded;
    (B) The approximate cost of such transportation purposes, which shall also be the maximum amount of net proceeds to be raised by the tax;
    (C) The maximum period of time, to be stated in calendar years, for which the tax may be imposed and the rate thereof. The maximum period of time for the imposition of the tax shall not exceed five years; and
    (D) A list of the projects and purposes qualifying as transportation purposes proposed to be funded from the tax, including an expenditure of at least 30 percent of the estimated revenue from the tax on projects consistent with the state-wide strategic transportation plan as defined in paragraph (6) of subsection (a) of Code Section 32-2-22.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 336,§ 2-1, eff. 4/26/2016.
