# § 48-8-111.1. Application of part to consolidated government

(a) With respect to any consolidated government created by the consolidation of a county and one or more municipalities, the provisions of this Code section shall control over any conflicting provisions of this part.
(b) The tax authorized by this part, if imposed by a consolidated government, shall not be subject to any maximum period of time for which the tax may be levied if general obligation debt is to be issued in conjunction with the imposition of the tax. In such case the resolution or ordinance calling for the imposition of the tax shall not be required to state a maximum period of time for which the tax is to be levied; and the language relating to the maximum period of time for which the tax is to be levied shall be omitted from the ballot. The resolution or ordinance calling for the imposition of the tax shall state the maximum amount of revenue to be raised by the tax, and the tax shall terminate as provided in paragraph (1) or (3) of subsection (b) of Code Section 48-8-112.
(c) A consolidated government shall be authorized to levy a tax for any capital outlay project provided for in subparagraphs (a)(1)(C), (a)(1)(D), and (a)(1)(F) of Code Section 48-8-111, or any combination thereof, without the necessity of operating such project jointly with a qualified municipal governing authority, owning or operating such projects with one or more qualified municipalities, or entering into a contract with one or more qualified municipalities with respect to such project.
(d) In all respects not otherwise provided for in this Code section, the levy of a tax under this part by a consolidated government shall be in the same manner as the levy of the tax by any other county.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 48, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 443, § 10, eff. 7/1/2004.
