# § 48-8-161. Definitions

(1) "Agent" means a person appointed by a seller to represent the seller before the member states.
(2) "Agreement" means the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement.
(3) "Certified automated system" means software certified jointly by the states that are signatories to the agreement to calculate the tax imposed by each jurisdiction on a transaction, determine the amount of tax to remit to the appropriate state, and maintain a record of the transaction.
(4) "Certified service provider" means an agent certified jointly by the states that are signatories to the agreement to perform all of the seller's sales tax functions.
(5) "Model 1 seller" means a seller registered under the agreement that has selected a certified service provider as its agent to perform all the seller's sales and use tax functions, other than the seller's obligation to remit tax on its own purchases.
(6) "Model 2 seller" means a seller registered under the agreement that has selected a certified automated system to perform part of its sales and use tax functions, but retains responsibility for remitting the tax.
(7) "Model 3 seller" means a seller registered under the agreement that has sales in at least five member states, has total annual sales revenue of at least $500 million, has a proprietary system that calculates the amount of tax due each jurisdiction, and has entered into a performance agreement with the member states that establishes a tax performance standard for the seller. As used in this definition, a seller includes an affiliated group of sellers using the same proprietary system.
(8) "Model 4 seller" means a seller that is not a Model 1 seller, a Model 2 seller, or a Model 3 seller.
(9) "Person" means an individual, trust, estate, fiduciary, partnership, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, corporation, or any other legal entity.
(10) "Sales tax" means the taxes levied under this chapter.
(11) "Seller" means any person making sales, leases, or rentals of personal property or services.
(12) "State" means any state of the United States, the District of Columbia, and the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico.
(13) "Use tax" means the taxes levied under this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 48, eff. 4/29/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 48, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 26, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 495, § 8, eff. 5/13/2004.
