# § 48-8-16. Ratification of Executive Order on temporary exemption for dyed fuel oils used for certain purposes

(a) The General Assembly finds that:
  (1) The price of dyed fuel oils, as used primarily for off-road, agricultural uses, including timber growing or harvesting and mining or construction, has risen substantially; and
  (2) This spike in the price of dyed fuel oils has produced an acute strain on Georgia's agricultural, timber growing or harvesting, and mining or construction sectors.
(b) The General Assembly of Georgia ratifies the Executive Order of the Governor dated May 15, 2008, and filed in the official records of the office of the Governor as Executive Order 05.15.08.01 which suspended the collection of state sales and use taxation as that tax applies to the sales of dyed fuel oils as defined in paragraph (5.1) of Code Section 48-9-2 which are used exclusively for agricultural purposes, timber growing or harvesting purposes, or mining or construction purposes and used directly by such industry sectors for such purposes and not for highway use as defined in paragraph (8) of Code Section 48-9-2.
(c) For the time period commencing on May 12, 2008, as specified in the Executive Order of the Governor dated May 15, 2008, and filed in the official records of the office of the Governor as Executive Order 05.15.08.01 and concluding on the last moment of April 30, 2009, state sales and use taxation pursuant to Code Section 48-8-30 as that tax applies to the sale or use of dyed fuel oils, as defined in paragraph (5.1) of Code Section 48-9-2, which are used exclusively for agricultural purposes, timber growing or harvesting purposes, or mining or construction purposes and used directly by such industry sectors for such purposes and not for highway use as defined in paragraph (8) of Code Section 48-9-2 shall be governed by the provisions of this Code section notwithstanding any provisions of Code Section 48-8-30 or any other law to the contrary.
(d) The temporary sales and use tax exemption provided for in this Code section shall not apply to local sales and use taxes levied and imposed in an area consisting of less than the entire state, however authorized, including, but not limited to, such taxes authorized by or pursuant to constitutional amendment; by or pursuant to Section 25 of an Act approved March 10, 1965 (Ga. L. 1965, p. 2243), as amended, known as the "Metropolitan Atlanta Rapid Transit Authority Act of 1965"; or by or pursuant to Article 2, 2A, 3, or 4 of this chapter. Such local taxes shall remain applicable to sales or uses of such dyed fuel oils.
(e) The commissioner is authorized to prescribe forms and promulgate rules and regulations deemed necessary in order to administer and effectuate this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 48, eff. 5/9/2017.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 26,§ 1, eff. 4/21/2009.
