# § 48-8-85. Referendum election for imposition of tax; procedures; subsequent elections; expenses

(a) Whenever the governing authority of any county or qualified municipality located wholly or partially within a special district in which a joint county and municipal sales and use tax was not imposed on January 1, 1980, wishes to submit to the electors of the special district the question of whether the tax authorized by Code Section 48-8-82 shall be imposed, any such governing authority shall notify the election superintendent of the county whose geographical boundary is conterminous with that of the special district by forwarding to the superintendent a copy of a resolution of the governing authority calling for a referendum election. Upon receipt of the resolution, it shall be the duty of the election superintendent to issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting the question of the imposition of the tax to the voters of the special district for approval or rejection. The election superintendent shall set the date of the election for a day not less than 30 nor more than 45 days after the date of the issuance of the call. The election superintendent shall cause the date and purpose of the election to be published once a week for two weeks immediately preceding the date of the election in the official organ of the county. The ballot shall have written or printed thereon the following: "() YESShall a retail sales and use tax of 1 percent be levied within the special district within __________________ County?"() NO
(b) All persons desiring to vote in favor of levying the tax shall vote "Yes," and those persons opposed to levying the tax shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast are in favor of levying the tax, then the tax shall be levied in accordance with this article; otherwise, the tax may not be levied, and the question of the imposition of the tax may not again be submitted to the voters of the special district until after 24 months immediately following the month in which the election was held. It shall be the duty of the election superintendent to hold and conduct such elections under the same rules and regulations as govern special elections. It shall be his further duty to canvass the returns, declare the result of the election, and certify the result to the Secretary of State and to the commissioner. The expense of the election shall be borne by the county whose geographical boundary is conterminous with that of the special district holding the election.
