# § 48-8-109.33. Timing for imposition of tax following approval; termination of tax

(a)
  (1) If the imposition of the tax is approved by referendum, the tax shall be imposed on the first day of the next succeeding calendar quarter which begins more than 50 days after the date of the election at which the tax was approved by the voters.
  (2) With respect to services that are regularly billed on a monthly basis, however, the resolution or ordinance imposing the tax shall become effective and the tax shall apply to the first regular billing period coinciding with or following the effective date specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection. A certified copy of the ordinance or resolution imposing the tax shall be forwarded to the commissioner to ensure it is received within five business days after certification of the election results.
(b) The tax shall cease to be imposed on the final day of the maximum period of time specified for the imposition of the tax.
(c) For any special district in which a tax authorized by this article is in effect may, while such tax is in effect, the General Assembly may pass a local Act calling for a reimposition of a tax as authorized by this article upon the termination of the tax then in effect, and a referendum may be held for this purpose while the tax is in effect. Proceedings for such reimposition shall be in the same manner as proceedings for the initial imposition of the tax as provided for in Code Section 48-8-109.32. Such newly authorized tax shall not be imposed until the expiration of the tax then in effect.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 379,§ 3-2, eff. 1/1/2025, app. to taxable years beginning on or after 1/1/2025.
