# § 48-8-115. Disbursement of proceeds

(a) The proceeds of the tax collected by the commissioner in each county within a special district under this part shall be disbursed as soon as practicable after collection as follows:
  (1) One percent of the amount collected shall be paid into the general fund of the state treasury in order to defray the costs of administration; and
  (2) Except for the percentage provided in paragraph (1) of this Code section, the remaining proceeds of the tax shall be distributed to the governing authority of the county within the special district imposing the tax as specified in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) The county within the special district shall distribute any such proceeds as follows:
  (1) To the county governing authority and any qualified municipalities as specified in an intergovernmental agreement. Where an intergovernmental agreement has been entered into, the agreement shall, at a minimum, include the following:
    (A) The specific capital outlay project or projects to be funded pursuant to the agreement;
    (B) The estimated or projected dollar amounts allocated for each project from tax proceeds from the tax authorized by this part;
    (C) The procedures for distributing proceeds from the tax authorized by this part to qualified municipalities;
    (D) A schedule for distributing proceeds from the tax authorized by this part to qualified municipalities which schedule shall include the priority or order in which projects will be fully or partially funded;
    (E) A provision that all capital outlay projects included in the agreement shall be funded from proceeds from the tax authorized by this part except as otherwise agreed;
    (F) A provision that proceeds from the tax authorized by this part shall be maintained in separate accounts and utilized exclusively for the specified purposes;
    (G) Record-keeping and audit procedures necessary to carry out the purposes of this part; and
    (H) Such other provisions as the county and participating municipalities choose to address; or
  (2) Where an intergovernmental agreement has not been entered into pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, the county within the special district shall distribute the proceeds of the tax authorized by this part as follows:
    (A)
      (i) To the governing authority of the county for one or more level one county-wide projects specified by the governing authority of the county in the ordinance or resolution required by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-111; provided, however, that any tax levied under this part that funds level one county-wide projects where an intergovernmental agreement has not been entered into pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be levied for a five-year period. In the event that any or all level one county-wide projects are estimated to cost an amount which exceeds the proceeds projected to be collected during a 24 month period of the levy of the tax, the tax shall be levied for a six-year period.
      (ii) In the event that no level one county-wide project is included in the ordinance or resolution required by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-111, to the governing authority of the county for one or more level two county-wide projects specified by the governing authority of the county in the ordinance or resolution required by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-111. In the event no level one county-wide project is included in the ordinance or resolution required by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-111 and the governing authority of the county has specified one or more municipal projects as level two county-wide projects in the ordinance or resolution required by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-111, to the governing authority of the appropriate municipality or municipalities for such level two county-wide projects specified in the ordinance or resolution required by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-111. The total estimated cost of all level two county-wide projects specified under this division shall not exceed 20 percent of the proceeds projected to be collected during the period specified in the ordinance or resolution required by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-111; or
    (B) In the event that no county-wide project is included in the resolution or ordinance calling for the imposition of the tax or in the event that tax proceeds exceed that amount required to fund the county-wide project or projects, the remaining proceeds shall be distributed in the following manner:
      (i) As specified in an intergovernmental agreement other than the agreement specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection. The intergovernmental agreement shall include, at a minimum, the information required in paragraph (1) of this subsection; or
      (ii) To the qualified municipalities within the special district based upon the ratio that the population of each qualified municipality bears to the total population of the county within the special district. If any qualified municipality is located in more than one county, only that portion of its population that is within the special district shall be counted. The remainder of such proceeds shall be distributed to the governing authority of the county within the special district. Capital outlay projects included in the referendum ballot by the county or any qualified municipalities within the special district shall be based upon the anticipated proceeds and distribution of the tax. The governing authority of the county within the special district shall distribute all proceeds received by the county for the tax levied pursuant to this part to the qualified municipalities within the special district on a monthly basis where proceeds are distributed in accordance with this division.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 48, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 443, § 13, eff. 7/1/2004.
