# § 48-8-273. Tourism attractions agreements; execution; 10-year term; sales and use tax refund; administrative regulations

(a) In the discretion of the commissioner of economic development and the commissioner of community affairs, in consideration of the execution of the agreement and subject to the approved company's compliance with the terms of the agreement, an approved company shall be granted a sales and use tax refund for new projects or an incremental sales and use tax refund for expansions of existing tourism attractions.
(b) The approved company shall have no obligation to refund or otherwise return any amount of this sales and use tax refund to the persons from whom the sales and use tax was collected.
(c) The term of the agreement granting a refund under this article shall be ten years, commencing on the date the tourism attraction opens for business and begins to collect sales and use taxes or, for an expansion, the date construction is complete.
(d) For each calendar year or partial calendar year occurring during the term of the agreement, an approved company shall file with the Department of Revenue a claim for a refund under this article by March 31 of the following year.
(e) The Department of Revenue, in consultation with the Department of Community Affairs and other appropriate state agencies, shall promulgate administrative regulations and require the filing of a refund form designed by the Department of Revenue to reflect the intent of this article.
(f) No sales and use tax refund shall be granted to an approved company that is during a tax year simultaneously receiving any other state tax incentive associated with any one tourism attraction project.
(g) Any sales and use tax refund shall be first applied to any outstanding tax obligation of the approved company that is due and payable to the state.
(h) By resolution and at the discretion of the county and city, if any, where the tourism attraction project is to be located, the local sales and use tax may be refunded under the same terms and conditions as any refund of state sales and use taxes.
(i) Refunds under this article shall be made without interest.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 86,§ 8, eff. 4/29/2013.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 74,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
