# § 48-8-141. Manner of imposition of tax; report; rate

(a) Except as otherwise expressly provided in Article VIII, Section VI, Paragraph IV of the Constitution of Georgia, the sales tax for educational purposes which may be levied by a board of education of a county school district or concurrently by the board of education of a county school district and the board of education of each independent school district located within such county shall be imposed and levied by such board or boards of education and collected by the commissioner on behalf of such board or boards of education in the same manner as provided for under Part 1 of this article and the provisions of Part 1 of this article in particular, but without limitation, the provisions regarding the authority of the commissioner to administer and collect this tax, retain the 1 percent administrative fee, and promulgate rules and regulations governing this tax shall apply equally to such board or boards of education. The report required pursuant to Code Section 48-8-122 shall be applicable; provided, however, that, in addition to posting such report in a newspaper of general circulation as required by such Code section, such report may be posted on the searchable website provided for under Code Section 50-6-32.
(b) On or after July 1, 2015, such sales and use tax levied on sales of motor fuels as defined in Code Section 48-9-2 shall be at the rate of 1 percent of the retail sales price of the motor fuel which is not more than $3.00 per gallon.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 46,§ 5-11, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 630,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
