# § 48-8-113. Administration and collection of tax

A tax levied pursuant to this part shall be exclusively administered and collected by the commissioner for the use and benefit of the county and qualified municipalities within such special district imposing the tax. Such administration and collection shall be accomplished in the same manner and subject to the same applicable provisions, procedures, and penalties provided in Article 1 of this chapter except that the sales and use tax provided in this part shall be applicable to sales of motor fuels as prepaid local tax as that term is defined in Code Section 48-8-2; provided, however, that all moneys collected from each taxpayer by the commissioner shall be applied first to such taxpayer's liability for taxes owed the state; and provided, further, that the commissioner may rely upon a representation by or in behalf of the county and qualified municipalities within the special district or the Secretary of State that such a tax has been validly imposed, and the commissioner and the commissioner's agents shall not be liable to any person for collecting any such tax which was not validly imposed. Dealers shall be allowed a percentage of the amount of the tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting, and paying the amount due if such amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The deduction shall be at the rate and subject to the requirements specified under subsections (b) through (f) of Code Section 48-8-50.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 48, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 25, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 48, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 209,§ 9, eff. 1/1/2008.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 443, § 12, eff. 7/1/2004.
