# § 48-8-76. Compliance with terms of Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement; relief from certain obligations

(a) A seller who registers to pay or to collect and remit applicable sales or use tax on sales made to purchasers in this state in accordance with the terms of the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement is relieved from the obligation to remit uncollected sales tax provided the seller was not so registered in this state in the twelve-month period preceding the effective date of this state's participation in the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement.
(b) The relief provided in subsection (a) of this Code section precludes an assessment for uncollected or unpaid sales together with penalty or interest for sales made during the period the seller was not registered in this state, provided that the registration occurs within 12 months of the effective date of this state's participation in the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement.
(c) The relief provided in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be available to a seller with respect to any matter or matters for which the seller received notice of the commencement of an audit and which audit is not yet finally resolved including any related administrative and judicial processes.
(d) The relief provided in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be available for sales or use taxes already paid or remitted to this state or to taxes collected by the seller.
(e) The relief provided in subsection (a) of this Code section is fully effective, absent the seller's fraud or intentional misrepresentation of a material fact, as long as the seller continues registration and continues payment or collection and remittance of applicable sales or use taxes for a period of at least 36 months. The statute of limitations applicable to asserting a tax liability is tolled during this 36 month period.
(f) The relief provided in subsection (a) of this Code section is applicable only to sales or use taxes due from a seller in its capacity as a seller and not to sales or use taxes due from a seller in its capacity as a buyer.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2011.
