# § 48-8-3.4. [Repealed Effective 6/30/2031] Maximum amount of sales and use tax imposed and collected on the maintenance, refitting, and repair of any single boat

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Boat" means a vehicle used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on the water.
  (2) "Event" means an uninterrupted period of time beginning when a boat arrives at a maintenance, refit, or repair facility in this state and ending when such boat departs such facility.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, the maximum amount of sales and use tax imposed and collected to maintain, refit, or repair a boat in this state during a single event shall not exceed $35,000.00.
(c) The commissioner shall promulgate any rules and regulations necessary to implement and administer this Code section, including, but not limited to, calling for an annual report to be issued to the department and the chairpersons of the House Committee on Ways and Means and the Senate Finance Committee that contains the following:
  (1) The number of full-time and part-time positions created by the seller during the preceding tax year;
  (2) The average salary of individuals employed in the reported positions; and
  (3) The total revenue generated and sales and use taxes collected from qualifying events during the preceding year.
(d) This Code section shall be automatically repealed on June 30, 2031.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 166,§ 5-4, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 50,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
