# § 48-8-123. Procedure for modification of infeasible projects previously approved by referendum

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term "infeasible" means that the project has, in the judgment of the governing authority as expressed in the resolution or ordinance required by subsection (b) of this Code section, become impracticable, unserviceable, unrealistic, or otherwise not in the best interests of the citizens of the special district or the municipality.
(b)
  (1) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part to the contrary, if the tax authorized by this part has been imposed within a special district for a purpose or purposes authorized by subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-111 and one or more projects authorized therein become or are determined to be infeasible, then the provisions of this Code section shall apply. However, this Code section shall not apply until and unless the governing authority or governing authorities specified under paragraph (2) of this subsection adopt a resolution or ordinance determining that such project or projects for which the levy has been approved have become infeasible in accordance with paragraph (2) of this subsection.
  (2)
    (A) If a project that has become infeasible is a project for which the county is responsible, an ordinance or resolution of the county shall be required determining that the project has become infeasible.
    (B) If a project that has become infeasible is a municipal project, an ordinance or resolution of the municipality responsible for the project shall be required determining that the project has become infeasible. Upon its approval by the municipality, such ordinance or resolution shall be transmitted to the governing authority of the county. The county governing authority shall rely on the determination by the municipality that the municipal project has become infeasible.
    (C) If a project that has become infeasible is a joint project of the county or a county authority and one or more municipalities or a joint project of two or more municipalities, an ordinance or resolution of all of the jurisdictions involved in the joint project shall be required determining that the project has become infeasible.
  (3) If the governing authority desiring to determine that a project is infeasible has incurred or entered into financing for such project, whether through an intergovernmental contract, a multiyear lease or purchase contract under Code Section 36-60-13, or other form of indebtedness, no such ordinance or resolution shall be adopted until the governing authority discharges in full the obligation incurred or provides for the defeasance of such obligation.
(c) Upon the adoption of the resolution or ordinance required by subsection (b) of this Code section, the tax shall continue to be imposed for the same period of time and for the raising of the same amount of revenue as originally authorized. Subject to approval in a referendum required by subsection (d) of this Code section, the county, or any municipality if the infeasible project is a project owned or operated by the municipality, or those entities that are part of a joint project, may expend the previously collected and future proceeds of the tax, or such portion thereof as was intended for the purpose that has been determined to be infeasible if the tax were imposed for more than one purpose, to reduce any general obligation indebtedness of the affected jurisdiction within the special district other than indebtedness incurred pursuant to this part, or by paying such proceeds into the general fund of the county or municipality to be used for the purpose of reducing ad valorem taxes, or both. In the event of a joint project in which there is an intergovernmental agreement apportioning the project, the proceeds shall be divided among the entities to such joint agreement according to such apportionment. In the event of a joint project in which there is no agreement apportioning the project, the proceeds shall be divided equally among the entities to the joint project.
(d)
  (1) Upon the adoption of the resolution or ordinance required by subsection (b) of this Code section, the governing authority of the county shall notify the county election superintendent by forwarding to the superintendent a copy of a resolution or ordinance calling for the modification of the purpose for which proceeds of the tax authorized by this part may be expended. Such ordinance or resolution shall specify the modified purpose for which the balance of proceeds of the tax are to be used and an estimate of the amount of the proceeds available to be used for the modified purpose.
  (2) Upon receipt of the resolution or ordinance required by this subsection, the election superintendent shall issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting to the voters of the county within the special district the question of modifying the project or projects for which the proceeds of the levy may be expended. The election superintendent shall issue the call and shall conduct the election, in conjunction with the next election held, to submit to the electors of the special district the imposition of a tax under this part and shall conduct the election in the manner specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 48-8-111.
  (3) The ballot submitting a question of the approval of the modified purpose for a levy previously approved by the electors of the county within the special district as authorized by this Code section shall have written or printed thereon the following: "() YESShall the capital outlay project consisting of __________________ approved for use of proceeds of the special 1 percent sales and use tax imposed in the special district of() NO__________________ County in a referendum on __________________ be modified so as to authorize use of such proceeds for the purpose of (reducing debt, reducing ad valorem taxes, or reducing debt and ad valorem taxes) of the (county) (municipality)?"
  (4) If there are multiple projects to be submitted to the electors for approval of modified purpose, there shall be one question for all projects of the county or its authorities, one question for all projects of municipalities, and one question for joint projects.
  (5) All persons desiring to vote in favor of modifying the project or projects shall vote "Yes," and all persons opposed to modifying the project or projects shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast are in favor of modifying the project or projects, then the proceeds of the tax imposed as provided in this part shall be used for such modified purpose; otherwise, the proceeds of the tax shall not be used for such modified purpose. The election superintendent shall hold and conduct the election under the same rules and regulations as govern special elections. The superintendent shall canvass the returns, declare the result of the election, and certify the result to the Secretary of State and to the commissioner. The expense of the election shall be paid from county funds.
(e) This Code section shall not apply to a board of education which levies the sales tax for educational purposes pursuant to Part 2 of this article and Article VIII, Section VI, Paragraph IV of the Constitution.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 72,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2011.
