# § 48-8-30. Imposition, rate, and collection of tax

(a)
  (1) There is levied and imposed a tax on the retail purchase, retail sale, rental, storage, use, or consumption of tangible personal property and on the services described in this article.
  (2)
    (A) There is levied and imposed a tax on the retail purchase or retail sale of specified digital products, other digital goods, or digital codes sold to an end user in this state, provided that such end user receives or will receive the right of permanent use of such products, goods, or codes and the transaction is not conditioned upon continued payment by the end user.
    (B) The tax levied under this paragraph shall apply regardless of whether possession of the specified digital goods, other digital goods, or digital codes is maintained by the seller or a third party.
    (C) Except as provided otherwise in this article, the tax imposed by this article on specified digital products, other digital goods, and digital codes shall be levied, collected, remitted, and administered in the same manner and at the same rate as is provided in this article for the retail purchase, retail sale, rental, storage, use, or consumption of tangible personal property.
(b)
  (1) Every purchaser of tangible personal property at retail in this state shall be liable for a tax on the purchase at the rate of 4 percent of the sales price of the purchase. The tax shall be paid by the purchaser to the retailer making the sale, as provided in this article. The retailer shall remit the tax to the commissioner as provided in this article and, when received by the commissioner, the tax shall be a credit against the tax imposed on the retailer. Every person making a sale or sales of tangible personal property at retail in this state shall be a retailer and a dealer and shall be liable for a tax on the sale at the rate of 4 percent of the sales price, or the amount of taxes collected by him from his purchaser or purchasers, whichever is greater.
  (2) No retail sale shall be taxable to the retailer or dealer which is not taxable to the purchaser at retail.
(c)
  (1) Upon the first instance of use, consumption, distribution, or storage within this state of tangible personal property purchased at retail outside this state, the owner or user of the property shall be a dealer and shall be liable for a tax at the rate of 4 percent of the purchase price, except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection.
  (2) Upon the first instance of use, consumption, distribution, or storage within this state of tangible personal property purchased at retail outside this state and used outside this state for more than six months prior to its first use within this state, the owner or user of the property shall be a dealer and shall be liable for a tax at the rate of 4 percent of the purchase price or fair market value of the property, whichever is the lesser.
  (3) This subsection shall not be construed to require a duplication in the payment of the tax. The tax imposed by this subsection shall be subject to the credit otherwise granted by this article for like taxes previously paid in another state.
(c.1)
  (1)
    (A) Every purchaser of tangible personal property at retail outside this state from a dealer when such property is to be used, consumed, distributed, or stored for use or consumption in this state, shall be liable for a tax on the purchase at the rate of 4 percent of the sales price of the purchase. The tax shall be paid by the purchaser to the retailer making the sale, as provided in this article. The retailer shall remit the tax to the commissioner as provided in this article, and when received by the commissioner, the tax shall be a credit against the tax imposed on the retailer.
    (B) Every dealer who makes a retail sale of tangible personal property outside this state which is to be delivered electronically or physically to a location within this state shall be liable for a tax on the sale at the rate of 4 percent of such sales price or the amount of tax as collected by such dealer from purchasers having their purchases delivered in this state, whichever is greater.
    (C) It shall be prima-facie evidence that such property is to be used, consumed, distributed, or stored for use or consumption in this state if that property is delivered electronically or physically to a location within this state to the purchaser or agent thereof.
    (D) No retail sale shall be taxable to the retailer or dealer which is not taxable to the purchaser at retail. The tax imposed by this subsection shall be subject to the credit otherwise granted by this article for like taxes previously paid in another state. This paragraph shall not be construed to require a duplication in the payment of the tax.
  (2) The department may bring an action for a declaratory judgment in any superior court against any person the department believes meets the definition of dealer provided in subparagraph (M.1) or (M.2) of paragraph (8) of Code Section 48-8-2 in order to establish that the collection obligation created by this subsection is applicable and valid under state and federal law with respect to such a dealer. If such action presents a question for judicial determination related to the constitutionality of the imposition of taxes upon such a dealer, the court shall, upon motion, enjoin the state from enforcing the collection obligation against such a dealer. The superior court shall act on such declaratory judgment action and issue a final decision in an expeditious manner.
(c.2)
  (1) A marketplace facilitator that meets the definition of a dealer provided in subparagraph (M.3) of paragraph (8) of Code Section 48-8-2 shall constitute the dealer and retailer for each retail sale taxable under this chapter at retail that it facilitates within or outside this state on behalf of a marketplace seller if such retail sale is sourced, as provided in Code Section 48-8-77, to a location within this state.
  (2)
    (A) All taxes levied or imposed by this chapter on retail sales described in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be paid by the purchaser to the marketplace facilitator that facilitates the retail sale on behalf of a marketplace seller.
    (B) The marketplace facilitator shall remit such taxes to the commissioner as provided in this article and, when received by the commissioner, the taxes shall be credited against the taxes imposed on the retail sale.
    (C) Each marketplace facilitator shall be liable for the full amount of taxes levied or imposed by this chapter on all retail sales described in paragraph (1) of this subsection or the amount of tax collected by such marketplace facilitator from all purchasers on all such retail sales, whichever is greater.
  (3) For the purposes of this subsection, it shall be prima-facie evidence that a retail sale is sourced to a location within this state if it is to be held for pickup, used, consumed, distributed, stored for use or consumption, or rendered as a service within this state.
  (4) No retail sale that is not taxable to the purchaser at retail shall be taxable to the marketplace facilitator. Taxes collected and remitted by a marketplace facilitator pursuant to this subsection shall be subject to the credit otherwise granted by this article for like taxes previously paid in another state. This subsection shall not be construed to require a duplication in the payment of any tax.
  (5) A marketplace seller shall not be obligated to collect and remit or be liable for the taxes levied or imposed by this chapter on any retail sale for which its marketplace facilitator is obligated and liable.
  (6) The department may bring an action for a declaratory judgment in any superior court against any person that meets the definition of a dealer as provided in subparagraph (M.3) of paragraph (8) of Code Section 48-8-2, in order to establish that the collection obligation and liability established by this subsection is applicable and valid under state and federal law with respect to such a dealer. If such action presents a question for judicial determination related to the constitutionality of the imposition of taxes upon such a dealer, the court shall, upon motion, enjoin the state from enforcing the collection obligation against such a dealer. The superior court shall act on such declaratory judgment action and issue a final decision in an expeditious manner.
  (7) No class action may be brought against a marketplace facilitator in any court of this state on behalf of customers arising from or in any way related to an overpayment of sales or use tax collected on sales facilitated by the marketplace facilitator, regardless of whether that claim is characterized as a tax refund claim. Nothing in this subsection affects a customer's right to seek a refund of taxes erroneously paid.
  (8) The department shall solely audit the marketplace facilitator for sales made by marketplace sellers but facilitated by the marketplace facilitator. The department will not audit marketplace sellers for sales facilitated by a marketplace facilitator except to the extent the marketplace facilitator seeks relief under paragraph (9) of this subsection.
  (9) A marketplace facilitator is relieved of liability for failure to collect and remit the correct amount of tax imposed by this chapter to the extent that the marketplace facilitator demonstrates to the satisfaction of the department that the error was due to insufficient or incorrect information given to the marketplace facilitator by the marketplace seller and the marketplace facilitator made a reasonable effort to obtain correct and sufficient information from the marketplace seller; provided, however, that this paragraph shall not apply if the marketplace facilitator and the marketplace seller are related members as defined in Code Section 48-7-28.3. Where a marketplace facilitator is relieved of liability under this paragraph, the marketplace seller is solely liable for the amount of uncollected tax.
  (10) A person that is a franchisor as such term is defined by 16 C.F.R. 436.1 shall not be a marketplace facilitator with respect to any dealer that is its franchisee, as such term is defined by 16 C.F.R. 436.1, and that would otherwise be a marketplace seller of such franchisor, provided that:
    (A) In the prior calendar year, such franchisor and all of its franchisees combined made annual gross sales in the United States of at least $500 million in aggregate;
    (B) Such franchisee maintains a valid certificate of registration as required by Code Section 48-8-59; and
    (C) Such franchisee and franchisor maintain a valid contract providing that the franchisee will collect and remit all applicable taxes and fees that the franchisor would otherwise be required to collect and remit as a marketplace facilitator for such franchisee.
  (11) A person shall not be a marketplace facilitator with respect to any dealer that would otherwise be its marketplace seller if:
    (A) In the prior calendar year, such dealer made annual gross sales in Georgia of at least $500 million;
    (B) Such dealer maintains a valid certificate of registration as required by Code Section 48-8-59; and
    (C) Such dealer and person that would otherwise be the marketplace facilitator maintain a valid contract providing that the dealer will collect and remit all applicable taxes and fees that such person would otherwise be required to collect and remit as a marketplace facilitator for such dealer.
  (12) A dealer shall return and report retail sales for which the dealer acted as a marketplace facilitator to the department as otherwise required by this chapter; provided, however, that such dealer may elect to return and report such retail sales either:
    (A) Separately from retail sales made directly by such dealer using a separate marketplace facilitator return that shall be published by the department for such purposes; or
    (B) Together with all other retail sales made directly by such dealer.
(d)
  (1) Every person to whom tangible personal property in the state is leased or rented shall be liable for a tax on the lease or rental at the rate of 4 percent of the sales price. The tax shall be paid to the person who leases or rents the property by the person to whom the property is leased or rented. A person who leases or rents property to others as a dealer under this article shall remit the tax to the commissioner as provided in this article. When received by the commissioner, the tax shall be a credit against the tax imposed on the person who leases or rents the property to others. Every person who leases or rents tangible personal property in this state to others shall be a dealer and shall be liable for a tax on the lease or rental at the rate of 4 percent of the sales price, or the amount of taxes collected by him from persons to whom he leases or rents tangible personal property, whichever is greater.
  (2) No lease or rental shall be taxable to the person who leases or rents tangible property to another which is not taxable to the person to whom the property is leased or rented.
  (3) The lessee of both taxable and exempt property in this state under a single lease agreement containing a lease period of ten years or more shall have the option to discharge in full all sales and use taxes imposed by this article relating to the tangible personal property by paying in a lump sum 4 percent of the fair market value of the tangible personal property at the date of inception of the lease agreement in the same manner and under the same conditions applicable to sales of the tangible personal property.
(e) Upon the first instance of use within this state of tangible personal property leased or rented outside this state, the person to whom the property is leased or rented shall be a dealer and shall be liable for a tax at the rate of 4 percent of the sales price paid to the person who leased or rented the property, subject to the credit authorized for like taxes previously paid in another state.
(e.1)
  (1) Every person who leases, as lessor, or rents tangible personal property outside this state for use within this state shall be liable for a tax at the rate of 4 percent of the sales price paid for that lease or rental if that person is a dealer, as defined in Code Section 48-8-2, and title to that property remains in that person. It shall be prima-facie evidence that such property is to be used within this state if that property is delivered in this state to the lessee or renter of such property, or to the agent of either. The tax shall be paid by the lessee or renter and payment of the tax shall be made to the lessor or person receiving rental payments for that property, which person shall be the dealer for purposes of this article. The dealer shall remit the tax to the commissioner as provided in this article and, when received by the commissioner, the tax shall be a credit against the tax imposed on the dealer. Every person who is a dealer, as defined in Code Section 48-8-2, and who leases or rents tangible personal property outside this state to be delivered in this state to the lessee, renter, or agent of either shall be a dealer and shall be liable as such for a tax on the lease or rental at the rate of 4 percent of the sales price from such leases or rentals or the amount of taxes collected by that dealer for leases or rentals of tangible personal property delivered in this state, whichever is greater.
  (2) No lease or rental shall be taxable to the dealer which is not taxable to the lessee or renter. The tax imposed by this subsection shall be subject to the credit granted by this article for like taxes previously paid in another state. This subsection shall not be construed to require a duplication in the payment of the tax.
(f)
  (1) Every person purchasing or receiving any service within this state, the purchase of which is a retail sale, shall be liable for tax on the purchase at the rate of 4 percent of the sales price made for the purchase. The tax shall be paid by the person purchasing or receiving the service to the person furnishing the service. The person furnishing the service, as a dealer under this article, shall remit the tax to the commissioner as provided in this article; and, when received by the commissioner, the tax shall be a credit against the tax imposed on the person furnishing the service. Every person furnishing a service, the purchase of which is a retail sale, shall be a dealer and shall be liable for a tax on the sale at the rate of 4 percent of the sales price made for furnishing the service, or the amount of taxes collected by him from the person to whom the service is furnished, whichever is greater.
  (2) No sale of services shall be taxable to the person furnishing the service which is not taxable to the purchaser of the service.
(g) Whenever a purchaser of tangible personal property under subsection (b) or (c.1) of this Code section, a lessee or renter of the property under subsection (d) or (e.1) of this Code section, or a purchaser of taxable services under subsection (f) of this Code section does not pay the tax imposed upon him or her to the retailer, lessor, or dealer who is involved in the taxable transaction, the purchaser, lessee, or renter shall be a dealer himself or herself and the commissioner, whenever he or she has reason to believe that a purchaser or lessee has not so paid the tax, may assess and collect the tax directly against and from the purchaser, lessee, or renter, unless the purchaser, lessee, or renter shows that the retailer, lessor, or dealer who is involved in the transaction has nevertheless remitted to the commissioner the tax imposed on the transaction. If payment is received directly from the purchaser, it shall not be collected a second time from the retailer, lessor, or dealer who is involved.
(h) The tax imposed by this Code section shall be collected from the dealer and paid at the time and in the manner provided in this article. Any person engaging or continuing in business as a retailer and wholesaler or jobber shall pay the tax imposed on the sales price of retail sales of the business at the rate specified when proper books are kept showing separately the gross proceeds of sales for each business. If the records are not kept separately, the tax shall be paid as a retailer or dealer on the gross sales of the business. For the purpose of this Code section, all sales through any one vending machine shall be treated as a single sale. The gross proceeds for reporting vending sales shall be treated as if the tax is included in the sale and the taxable proceeds shall be net of the tax included in the sale.
(i) The tax levied by this Code section is in addition to all other taxes, whether levied in the form of excise, license, or privilege taxes, and shall be in addition to all other fees and taxes levied.
(j) In the event any distributor licensed under Chapter 9 of this title purchases any motor fuel on which the prepaid state tax or prepaid local tax or both have been imposed pursuant to this Code section and resells the same to a governmental entity that is totally or partially exempt from such tax under paragraph (1) of Code Section 48-8-3, such distributor shall be entitled to either a credit or refund. The amount of the credit or refund shall be the prepaid state tax or prepaid local tax or both rates for which such governmental entity is exempt multiplied by the gallons of motor fuel purchased for its exclusive use. To be eligible for the credit or refund, the distributor shall reduce the amount such distributor charges for the fuel sold to such governmental entity by an amount equal to the tax from which such governmental entity is exempt. Should a distributor have a liability under this Code section, the distributor may elect to take a credit for those sales against such liability.
(k) The prepaid local tax shall be imposed at the time tax is imposed under Code Section 48-9-3.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 236,§ 3-3, eff. 1/1/2024, app. to transactions occurring on or after 1/1/2024.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 322,§ 2, eff. 4/1/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 63,§ 2, eff. 4/28/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 365,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 46,§ 5-5, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 48, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 238,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 507,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 209,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2008.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 302, § 17, eff. 4/27/2001.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 48, eff. 2/12/2001.
