# § 48-8-263. Ballot question; expenses of election; resubmission of question; general obligation debt

(a)
  (1) The ballot submitting the question of the imposition of the tax to the voters within the special district shall have written or printed thereon the following: "() YESShall a special __________________ percent sales and use tax be imposed in the special district consisting of __________________ County for a period of time not to exceed __________________ and for the raising of an estimated amount of $__________________ for transportation purposes?"() NO
  (2) If debt is to be issued, the ballot shall also have written or printed thereon, following the language specified by paragraph (1) of this subsection, the following: "If imposition of the tax is approved by the voters, such vote shall also constitute approval of the issuance of general obligation debt of __________________ in the principal amount of $__________________ for the above purpose."
(b) The election superintendent shall issue the call and conduct the election in the manner authorized by general law. The superintendent shall canvass the returns, declare the result of the election, and certify the result to the Secretary of State and to the commissioner. The expense of the election shall be paid from county funds. All persons desiring to vote in favor of imposing the tax shall vote "Yes," and all persons opposed to imposing the tax shall vote "No." If more than one-half of the votes cast throughout the entire special district are in favor of imposing the tax, then the tax shall be imposed as provided in this part.
(c) Where such question is not approved by the voters, the county may resubmit such question from time to time upon compliance with the requirements of this part.
(d)
  (1) If the intergovernmental agreement and proposal include the authority to issue general obligation debt and if more than one-half of the votes cast are in favor of the proposal, then the authority to issue such debt in accordance with Article IX, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution is given to the proper officers of the county or qualified municipality; otherwise, such debt shall not be issued. If the authority to issue such debt is so approved by the voters, then such debt may be issued without further approval by the voters.
  (2) If the issuance of general obligation debt is included and approved as provided in this Code section, then the governing authority of the county or qualified municipality may incur such debt either through the issuance and validation of general obligation bonds or through the execution of a promissory note or notes or other instrument or instruments. If such debt is incurred through the issuance of general obligation bonds, such bonds and their issuance and validation shall be subject to Articles 1 and 2 of Chapter 82 of Title 36 except as specifically provided otherwise in this part. If such debt is incurred through the execution of a promissory note or notes or other instrument or instruments, no validation proceedings shall be necessary, and such debt shall be subject to Code Sections 36-80-10 through 36-80-14 except as specifically provided otherwise in this part. In either event, such general obligation debt shall be payable first from the separate account in which are placed the proceeds received by the county or qualified municipality from the tax. Such general obligation debt shall, however, constitute a pledge of the full faith, credit, and taxing power of the county or qualified municipality; and any liability on such debt which is not satisfied from the proceeds of the tax shall be satisfied from the general funds of the county or qualified municipality.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 578,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 752,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2022, app. with respect to taxes imposed or to be imposed under resolutions or ordinances adopted on or after 5/2/2022.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 54,§ 4, eff. 5/1/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 336,§ 2-1, eff. 4/26/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 301,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 46,§ 7-5, eff. 7/1/2015.
See 2024 Ga. Laws 578, § 7.
