# § 48-8-77.1. Certification of review software by department; relief from liability

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the definitions as provided in Code Section 48-8-161 shall apply.
(b) The department shall review software submitted to the Streamlined Sales Tax Governing Board for certification as a Certified Automated System under Section 501 of the Streamlined Sales and Use Tax Agreement. Such review shall include a review to determine that the program accurately reflects the taxability of the product categories included in the program. Upon approval by the department, the state will certify its acceptance of the software to the Streamlined Sales Tax Governing Board.
(c) The department shall relieve certified service providers and model 2 sellers from liability to the state and local jurisdictions in the state for not collecting sales or use taxes resulting from the certified service provider or model 2 seller relying on the certification provided by the state.
(d) The department shall provide relief from liability to certified service providers for not collecting sales and use taxes in the same manner as provided to sellers under Code Section 48-8-38.
(e) If the department determines that an item or transaction is incorrectly classified as to the item or transaction's taxability, the department shall notify the certified service providers or model 2 sellers of the incorrect classification. The certified service provider or model 2 seller shall have ten days to revise the classification after receipt of notice from the department of the determination.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 46,§ 9, eff. 4/27/2011.
