# § 48-8-249. Use of tax proceeds; contracts; delivery of projects

(a) The proceeds received from the tax authorized by this article shall be used within the special district receiving proceeds of the tax exclusively for the projects on the approved investment list for such district as provided in subsection (b) of Code Section 48-8-243. Authorized uses of tax proceeds in connection with such projects shall include the cost of project defined in paragraph (2) of Code Section 48-8-242.
(b) The commission shall be responsible for the proper application of the proceeds received from the tax authorized by this article for the approved investment list for each special district. The commission shall delegate the management of the budget, schedule, execution, and delivery of the projects contained in the approved investment list as follows:
  (1) The commission shall contract with the Department of Transportation for all transportation projects except bus and rail mass transit systems and passenger rail in any special district the boundaries of which are not wholly contained within a single MPO; and
  (2) The commission shall contract with the Atlanta-region Transit Link "ATL" Authority only for projects that are bus and rail mass transit systems and passenger rail within any special district the boundaries of which are wholly contained within a single MPO. Upon entering into contracts with the Department of Transportation or the Atlanta-region Transit Link "ATL" Authority as provided above, the commission shall dispense funds upon the request of the commissioner of transportation or the executive director of the Atlanta-region Transit Link "ATL" Authority, which request shall include certification of the completion of the project or project element for which funds are requested. Payment shall be made promptly upon approval by the construction division or the financing and investment division of the commission, and such payments shall not require any other official action by the commission. The use of funds so dispensed shall be subject to review and audit by the construction division and the financing and investment division of the commission and action by the commission upon receipt of complaint or if otherwise warranted. The Department of Transportation and Atlanta-region Transit Link "ATL" Authority shall consult with the commission on at least a quarterly basis regarding the progress and performance in the execution, schedule, and delivery of projects on the approved investment list.
(c) In managing the execution, schedule, and delivery of the projects on the approved investment list for a special district, the Department of Transportation or Atlanta-region Transit Link "ATL" Authority, as appropriate, shall determine whether a project should be designed and constructed by the Department of Transportation, by a local government, or by another public or private entity. In making such determination the following shall be considered:
  (1) Whether such project is on the state-wide transportation improvement program, the state-wide strategic transportation plan, or a transportation improvement program;
  (2) The type and estimated cost of the project;
  (3) The location of the project and whether it encompasses multiple jurisdictions;
  (4) The experience of a local government or governments or a public or private entity in designing and constructing such project as set forth in an application in a form to be provided by the commissioner of transportation or the executive director of the Atlanta-region Transit Link "ATL" Authority; and
  (5) The recommendation of the MPO, if any, for such special district. Following the decision, the Department of Transportation, the local government or governments, or another public or private entity as determined under this subsection shall contract for implementing the projects in accordance with applicable state and federal requirements.
(d) The commission shall maintain or cause to be maintained an adequate record-keeping system for each project funded by a special district transportation sales and use tax. An annual audit shall be paid for by each special district and conducted by an independent auditing firm as selected by the commission. Such audit shall include a schedule which shows for each such project the original estimated cost, the current estimated cost if it is not the original estimated cost, amounts expended in prior years, and amounts expended in the current year. Such audit shall verify and test expenditures sufficient to provide assurances that the schedule is fairly presented in relation to the financial statements. The audit report on the financial statements shall include an opinion, or disclaimer of opinion, as to whether the schedule is presented fairly in all material respects in relation to the financial statements taken as a whole.
(e) Twenty-five percent of the proceeds received from the tax authorized by this article shall be distributed to the local governments within the special district in which the tax is imposed if such special district's boundaries are not conterminous with an MPO. Fifteen percent of the proceeds received from the tax authorized by this article shall be distributed to the local governments within the special district in which the tax is imposed if such special district's boundaries are wholly contained within a single MPO. Such percentages shall be allocated to each local government by multiplying the LARP factor of each local government by the total amount of funds to be distributed to all the local governments in the special district. Proceeds described in this subsection shall be distributed to the local governments on an ongoing basis as they are received by the commission. Such proceeds shall be used by the local governments only for transportation projects as defined in paragraph (10) of Code Section 48-8-242 and may also serve as the local match as required for state transportation projects and grants. If a special district receives from the tax net proceeds in excess of the investment list approved by the roundtable for the imposition of the tax or in excess of the actual cost of the project or projects on such investment list, then such excess proceeds shall be distributed among the local governments within the special district in accordance with this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 409,§ 4-13, eff. 5/3/2018.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 48, eff. 4/24/2013.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 554,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2011.
