# § 7-3-44. Denial, suspension, and revocation of license; notice; hearings; review; effect

(a) Notice of the department's intention to enter an order denying an application or suspending or revoking a license shall be sent to the applicant or licensee in writing by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery addressed to the principal business address of such applicant or licensee. If a person refuses to accept service of such notice, the notice shall be served by the department under any other method of lawful service, and the person shall be liable to the department for a sum equal to the actual costs incurred to serve the notice. Such liability shall be paid upon notice and demand by the department and shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as other fees or fines administered by the department.
(b) Within 20 days of the date of the notice issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, the applicant or licensee may request in writing a hearing to contest the order. If no such hearing is requested, the department shall enter a final order stating the grounds for the denial, suspension, or revocation. Such final order shall be effective on the date of issuance, and the department shall promptly mail a copy thereof to the principal business address of such applicant or licensee.
(c) A decision by the department denying an application for licensure or an order of the department suspending or revoking a license shall be subject to review in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," except that judicial review shall be available solely in the superior court of the county of domicile of the department.
(d) The department may pursue any administrative action initiated under this chapter against an applicant or licensee to its conclusion, regardless of whether the applicant or licensee withdraws its application or whether a licensee does not renew or surrenders its license.
(e) The suspension, revocation, or expiration of a license shall not alter, ameliorate, or void the duties, defenses, and liabilities of either a borrower or a licensee under any existing agreement or contract entered into by the licensee prior to such suspension, revocation, or expiration.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 409,§ 2, eff. 6/30/2020.
