# § 7-3-46. Failure to comply with order; civil action; penalties

(a) Whenever a person fails to comply with the terms of a final order or decision of the department issued pursuant to this chapter, the department may, through the Attorney General, petition any superior court of this state having jurisdiction over one or more defendants for an order directing such person to obey the order of the department within a period of time as shall be fixed by the court. Upon the filing of such petition, the court shall allow a motion to show cause why it should not be granted. After a hearing upon the merits or after failure of such person to appear when ordered, the court shall grant the petition of the department upon a finding that the order of the department was properly issued.
(b) Any person who violates the terms of any final order or decision issued pursuant to this chapter shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $1,000.00. Each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. In determining the amount of the penalty, the department shall take into account the appropriateness of the penalty relative to the size of the financial resources of such person, the good faith efforts of such person to comply with the order, the gravity of the violation, the history of previous violations by such person, and such other factors or circumstances that contributed to the violation. The department may reduce any penalty which is subject to imposition or has been imposed pursuant to this Code section. Such penalty shall be final except as to judicial review as provided in Code Section 7-1-90, except that judicial review shall be available solely in the superior court of the county of domicile of the department.
(c) The department may bring an appropriate civil action to enforce any provision of this chapter or any rule, regulation, decision, or order issued pursuant to this chapter, whether by injunction or otherwise, in the superior court of this state having jurisdiction over one or more of the defendants.
(d) The department may prescribe by rule and regulation administrative fines for violations of this chapter or of rules, regulations, decisions, or orders issued pursuant to this chapter.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 409,§ 2, eff. 6/30/2020.
