# § 7-3-47. Confidentiality; disclosure limitations

(a) Except as provided in this Code section, information obtained by the department pursuant to this chapter, which shall include any information disclosed through the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry, is confidential as provided in Code Section 7-1-70.
(b) In addition to the exceptions set forth in subsection (b) of Code Section 7-1-70, the department is authorized to share information obtained under this chapter with other regulatory or law enforcement authorities. In the case of such sharing, the safeguards to confidentiality already in place within such agencies or authorities shall be deemed adequate. A designated employee or agent of the department may disclose such information as is necessary to conduct a civil or administrative investigation or proceeding related to the business of making installment loans.
(c) The department is authorized to make the following information available to the public on the department's website, upon receipt by the department of a written request, or in the Nationwide Multistate Licensing System and Registry:
  (1) The name, business address, telephone number, facsimile number, and unique identifier of a licensee;
  (2) The names and titles of the executive officers of a licensee;
  (3) The names of the owners of a licensee;
  (4) The name, business address, telephone number, and facsimile number of all locations of a licensee;
  (5) The terms of or a copy of any bond filed by a licensee;
  (6) Information concerning any violation of this chapter or any rule, regulation, or order issued pursuant to this chapter, provided that such information is derived from a final order of the department;
  (7) The imposition of an administrative fine or penalty under this chapter; and
  (8) The address of a licensee's registered agent for service of process in this state.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 409,§ 2, eff. 6/30/2020.
