# § 7-3-6. § 7-3-6. Exemptions from chapter

This chapter shall not apply to businesses organized or operating under the authority of any law of this state or of the United States relating to banks, trust companies, real estate loan or mortgage companies, federal savings and loan associations, credit unions, and pawnbrokers or to the transactions of such businesses, which businesses are expressly excluded from regulation under this chapter and exempted from the operation of its provisions. This chapter also shall not apply to the University System of Georgia or its educational units, to private colleges and universities in this state and associations thereof, or to student loan transactions of such educational entities, which educational entities and student loan transactions thereof are expressly excluded from regulation under this chapter and exempted from the operation of its provisions. It is expressly provided that no bank, trust company, national bank, insurance company, or real estate loan or mortgage company authorized to do business in this state shall be required to obtain a license under this chapter nor shall the University System of Georgia or its educational units or private colleges and universities in this state and associations thereof be required to obtain a license under this chapter. It is further provided that persons making loans and charging interest thereon at a rate of not more than 8 percent simple interest per annum shall not be subject to this chapter or required to obtain a license under this chapter.

Ga. L. 1904, p. 79, § 18; Ga. L. 1920, p. 215, § 19; Code 1933, §§ 25-221, 25-318; Ga. L. 1955, p. 431, § 5; Ga. L. 1985, p. 249, § 1; Ga. L. 1997, p. 143, § 7; Ga. L. 2016, p. 390, § 7-4/HB 811.
