# § 15-5A-10. Authority to make rules and revisions; creation of panel for revisions; guidelines for acceptance of cases; required rules

(a) The judge of the Georgia State-wide Business Court shall have responsibility for creating and, when needed, making revisions to the rules of the Georgia State-wide Business Court and submitting such rules and revisions to the Supreme Court for approval prior to such rules or revisions taking effect; provided, however, that such rules shall conform to Chapter 11 of Title 9, the "Georgia Civil Practice Act," where related and applicable.
(b) The judge of the Georgia State-wide Business Court is authorized to empanel a commission of up to eight individuals, who may be judges, to assist the judge in the creation or revision of such rules; provided, however, that such individuals shall not receive compensation for being empaneled but may receive a daily expense allowance and travel cost reimbursement in the amount specified in Code Section 45-7-21.
(c) Such rules may include a matrix or guidelines for the acceptance of cases by the Georgia State-wide Business Court, including, but not limited to, such factors as the amount in controversy, the existence of novel or complex legal issues, and anticipated discovery issues needing the intervention of the Georgia State-wide Business Court.
(d) Such rules shall include:
  (1) Guidelines and procedures for the filing of pleadings, petitions, motions, and all other documents, electronically or otherwise, with the Georgia State-wide Business Court; and
  (2) A reasonable time within which the Georgia State-wide Business Court shall issue a decision on a matter before the court.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 271,§ 1-1, eff. 5/7/2019.
