# § 15-5A-11. Clerk; appointment; term; compensation

(a) There shall be a clerk of the Georgia State-wide Business Court. Such clerk shall be appointed by the Governor, subject to approval by a majority vote of the Senate Judiciary Committee and a majority vote of the House Committee on Judiciary. The Senate Judiciary Committee and the House Committee on Judiciary shall be authorized to meet jointly or separately, while in or out of a legislative session, as called in the discretion of each such chairperson, with notice provided by the chairpersons to such committee members, to consider the approval of such appointment.
(b)
  (1) The initial clerk of the Georgia State-wide Business Court shall be appointed and approved by July 31, 2020, and shall serve an initial term beginning on August 1, 2020.
  (2)
    (A) The clerk of the Georgia State-wide Business Court shall serve for a term of five years and may be reappointed for any number of consecutive terms and shall be reappointed and reapproved in the same manner as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section.
    (B) Vacancies in the office of clerk of the Georgia State-wide Business Court shall be filled by appointment of the Governor in the same manner as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) The annual compensation of the clerk of the Georgia State-wide Business Court shall be equal to the annual compensation provided for the clerk of the Court of Appeals.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 271,§ 1-1, eff. 5/7/2019.
