# § 43-39-14. Temporary and provisional licenses

(a) The board may issue a temporary license to an applicant for a permanent license. Such license shall have the same force and effect as a permanent license. The temporary license will expire 12 months from the date of its issuance and shall not be renewable. Upon a finding by the board that the applicant has failed either the written or oral examination, the board shall revoke such temporary license.
(b) The board may issue a provisional license to an applicant for a permanent license. The provisional license may be granted to an individual who has passed all written examinations and completed all other requirements for permanent license except for the postdoctoral supervised work experience requirement and the oral examination. Provisional licensure will expire in 24 months unless the board grants an exception, or in the event of the granting of a permanent license, whichever occurs first. The provisional license shall not be renewable. An individual who is licensed under this subsection is restricted to the stipulations of the supervised work experience requirement. Provisional licensure will be granted only to an individual who is in the process of completing the postdoctoral supervised work experience requirement and is subject to revocation if the board determines that the requirements of the supervised work experience are not being satisfactorily met. The revocation of a provisional license shall not be considered a contested case within the meaning of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," but a holder of a provisional license shall have a right to appear before the board.
