# § 43-39-8. Application for license; qualifications

(a) Any person wishing to practice psychology in this state shall make application to the board through the division director upon such form and in such manner as shall be adopted and prescribed by the board and obtain from the board a license so to do. Unless such a person has obtained such a license it shall be unlawful for that person to practice; and if that person shall practice psychology without first having obtained such a license, that person shall be deemed to have violated this article.
(b) A candidate for such license shall furnish the board with satisfactory evidence that the candidate:
  (1) Is of good moral character;
  (2) Has completed the requirements of a doctoral degree from a professional training program in applied psychology, including, but not limited to, clinical psychology, counseling psychology, industrial or organizational psychology, or school psychology from an accredited educational institution recognized by the board as maintaining satisfactory standards. Any person who has received a doctoral degree in psychology from an accredited educational institution recognized by the board as maintaining satisfactory standards and who has also completed an organized retraining program in applied psychology acceptable to the board shall also meet the degree requirements of this paragraph;
  (3) Has had at least two years of experience in psychology of a type considered by the board to be qualifying in nature;
  (4) Is competent in psychology, as shown by passing such examinations, written or oral, or both, as the board deems necessary;
  (5) Has not within the preceding six months failed an examination given by the board; and
  (6) Has satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for a license under this Code section shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board or its representative to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 36,§ 3, eff. 4/23/2019.
