# § 43-39-6. Authority of board to establish code of conduct and of ethics, administer oaths, summon witnesses, and take testimony; issuance of licenses; enforcement of chapter

The board shall have authority to establish a code of conduct and of ethics, to administer oaths, to summon witnesses, and to take testimony in all matters relating to its duties. The board shall issue licenses to practice psychology to all persons who shall present satisfactory evidence of attainments and qualifications under this article and the rules and regulations of the board. Such licenses shall be attested by the division director under the board's adopted seal, and it shall give absolute authority to the person to whom it is issued to practice psychology in this state. It shall be the duty of the division director, under the direction of the board, to aid the prosecuting attorneys in the enforcement of this article and the prosecution of all persons charged with the violation of its provisions. The board shall have authority to administer and participate in the "Psychology Interjurisdictional Compact (Psypact)" set out in Article 2 of this chapter and to recognize and permit the authority to practice interjurisdictional telepsychology and temporary practice in Georgia as established by such compact. The board shall have authority to conduct national background checks by the submission of fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation through the Georgia Crime Information Center; provided, however, that reports from such record background checks shall not be shared with entities outside of this state.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 548,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 36,§ 1, eff. 4/23/2019.
