# § 43-39-1. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the State Board of Examiners of Psychologists.
(2) "Mental abilities" means abilities that are psychological in nature and are related to the practice of psychology.
(3) "Neuropsychological functioning" means the psychological manifestations of brain functioning. Neuropsychological functioning includes but is not limited to sensory motor functioning, attention, concentration, memory, language, abstraction, problem solving, visual-spatial ability, executive functioning, and personality.
(4) "Neuropsychology" means the subspecialty of psychology concerned with the relationship between the brain and behavior, including the diagnosis of brain pathology through the use of psychological tests and assessment techniques.
(5) "Personality characteristics" means personality characteristics that are psychological in nature and related to the practice of psychology.
(6) "Psychological testing" means the use of assessment instruments to both:
  (A) Measure mental abilities, personality characteristics, or neuropsychological functioning; and
  (B) Diagnose, evaluate, classify, or render opinions regarding mental and nervous disorders and illnesses, including, but not limited to, organic brain disorders, brain damage, and other neuropsychological conditions.
(7) "To practice psychology" or "practice of psychology" means to render or offer to render to individuals, groups, organizations, or the public for a fee or any remuneration, monetary or otherwise, any service involving the application of recognized principles, methods, and procedures of the science and profession of psychology, including, but not limited to, diagnosing and treating mental and nervous disorders and illnesses; rendering opinions concerning diagnoses of mental disorders, including, but not limited to, organic brain disorders and brain damage; engaging in neuropsychology; engaging in psychotherapy; interviewing, administering, and interpreting tests of mental abilities, aptitudes, interests, and personality characteristics, including, but not limited to, psychological testing, for such purposes as psychological classification or evaluation or for educational or vocational placement, or for such purposes as psychological counseling, guidance, or readjustment. When engaged in the practice of psychology, licensed psychologists may describe or label any testing, assessment, or evaluation they conduct within the scope of practice described in this Code section as "psychological" in nature; provided, however, that any such description or labeling shall not be construed to alter the meaning of psychological testing as defined in paragraph (6) of this Code section and in paragraph (9) of Code Section 43-39-7. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as permitting the administration or prescription of drugs or in any way infringing upon or restricting the practice of medicine as defined in the laws of this state.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 377,§ 5, eff. 4/26/2016.
