# § 47-25-21. Secretary-treasurer

(a)
  (1) There is created the office of secretary-treasurer of the board. The secretary-treasurer shall be elected and appointed by the board and shall serve at the pleasure of the board. His or her compensation and duties may be fixed by the board. In addition to such salary, the secretary-treasurer shall receive credit for a sum of $1,250.00 per year as dues in the retirement system.
  (2) The board or the secretary-treasurer with the approval of the board may employ additional personnel to assist the board or secretary-treasurer in carrying out duties provided in this chapter. The compensation and duties of any such personnel shall be fixed by the board.
(b) The secretary-treasurer shall be paid retirement benefits upon retiring as secretary-treasurer as provided in Article 5 of this chapter for a chief magistrate retiring with the highest benefit allowed by such article and shall be entitled to any retirement option allowed by such article.
(c) The board shall have authority to require the secretary-treasurer to give a good and sufficient surety bond in an amount to be determined by the board. The bond shall be payable to the board and shall be conditioned upon the proper and faithful performance of the duties of the secretary-treasurer. The secretary-treasurer shall be required to make quarterly reports to the board, which reports shall show all receipts and disbursements in such form and in such manner as the board may require. He or she shall likewise be required quarterly to make a full account of all moneys or property coming into his or her hands on behalf of the board at any time.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 660,§ 3, effective onJuly 1, 2014, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law"; otherwise, this Act shall not become effective and shall be automatically repealed in its entirety onJuly 1, 2014, as required by subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-50.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 621,§ 1, effective on July 1, 2014, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law"; otherwise, this Act shall not become effective and shall be automatically repealed in its entirety on July 1, 2014, as required by subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-50.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 527,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
