# § 47-25-82. Benefits for surviving spouse

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "surviving spouse" means the person who was married to a member on the date of the member's death.
(b) Upon the death of any member who is then receiving retirement benefits and upon the surviving spouse of such member attaining 60 years of age, said spouse shall be paid spouse's benefits which shall be equal to 50 percent of the retirement benefits then being paid to such member. Such benefits shall be paid for the remainder of the life of such surviving spouse.
(c) Upon the death of any member prior to retirement, the surviving spouse of such member may elect:
  (1) To withdraw the dues paid into the retirement fund by the deceased member plus interest at the rate specified by law, in which case the spouse shall be deemed to have waived any right to any benefits; or
  (2) To leave such dues in the retirement fund and to receive spouse's benefits which shall be payable beginning:
    (A) On the date of the member's death, if such member is 60 years of age or older; or
    (B) On the date on which the surviving spouse of the deceased member reaches 60 years of age, whichever event occurs last, and which shall be equal to 50 percent of the retirement benefits which the deceased member was drawing at the time of death or, in the case of a member who dies prior to his or her sixtieth birthday, which such deceased member would have been entitled to receive upon reaching 60 years of age had he or she lived and ceased service as a chief magistrate or the secretary-treasurer on the date of his or her death.
(d) A member who is unmarried at the time of such election may designate a survivor at the time of making such election. If a member is married at the time of such election, the member may elect a designated survivor other than his or her spouse under this subsection only with the written agreement of the spouse. In any event, the designated survivor shall be a person with whom the member has a familial relationship through blood, marriage, or adoption. The designated survivor designated pursuant to this subsection shall be entitled to a survivor's benefit which is the actuarial equivalent to a surviving spouse's benefit as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 660,§ 6, effective onJuly 1, 2014, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law"; otherwise, this Act shall not become effective and shall be automatically repealed in its entirety onJuly 1, 2014, as required by subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-50.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 527,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
