# § 47-25-83. Refund of dues

(a) Any member, after ceasing to serve as a chief magistrate or as the secretary-treasurer and after waiving any right to retirement benefits in writing on a form to be provided by the board, may apply for and be refunded all dues paid, together with 5 percent simple interest per annum from the end of the calendar year in which paid to the end of the calendar year next preceding the application for the refund.
(b) Although retirement pay shall be based on Code Section 47-25-81 and nothing in this Code section shall be construed to alter same, at the effective date of retirement, simple interest at a rate of 5 percent per annum shall be computed on all dues paid from the end of the calendar year in which paid to the end of the calendar year immediately preceding the date of retirement and shall be added to the total dues paid. After all retirement benefits coming due under Code Section 47-25-81 have been paid and if the total thereof shall not be equal to or exceed the above total of dues and interest, then the balance of such principal and interest shall be paid to the estate of the deceased member.
(c) Upon application by the estate of any member who dies prior to retirement and who does not have a surviving spouse who is eligible for benefits under Code Section 47-25-82, all dues paid by such deceased member, together with 5 percent simple interest per annum from the end of the calendar year in which paid to the end of the calendar year next preceding the application for the refund, shall be paid to the estate of the deceased member.
(d) No dues may be refunded except in strict compliance with this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 660,§ 7, effective onJuly 1, 2014, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law"; otherwise, this Act shall not become effective and shall be automatically repealed in its entirety onJuly 1, 2014, as required by subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-50.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 527,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
