# § 47-25-20. Board of Commissioners created; members; term of office

(a) There is created the Board of Commissioners of the Magistrates Retirement Fund of Georgia. The board shall consist of seven members as follows:
  (1) The Governor or the Governor's designee;
  (2) An appointee of the Governor who is not the Attorney General; and
  (3) Five chief magistrates who are members of the fund.
(b) The members of the board provided for by paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be appointed by the Governor. The first such members shall be appointed by the Governor to take office on July 1, 2006, for initial terms as follows: one such member shall be appointed for one year; two such members shall be appointed for terms of two years; and two such members shall be appointed for terms of three years. Thereafter, the Governor shall appoint successors upon the expiration of the respective terms of office for terms of three years. All such members shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. Such members shall be eligible for reappointment to successive terms of office as members of the board.
(c) The board shall elect a chairperson from among its own membership to serve for a term as established by rules of the board. Four members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. All members of the board shall serve without compensation but may be reimbursed for travel and other expenses incurred by them in carrying out their duties as members of the board.
(d) In the event of a vacancy in the membership of the board, the remaining members of the board shall appoint a chief magistrate who is a member of the fund to fill such vacancy for the unexpired term.
(e) The Council of Magistrate Court Judges shall be authorized to submit the names of nominees for each position on the board appointed by the Governor pursuant to this Code section. The Governor may consider such nominees in making such appointments, but it is specifically provided that all such appointments shall be at the sole discretion of the Governor, and the Governor shall not be required to make any appointments from nominees made by the Council of Magistrate Court Judges.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 660,§ 2, effective onJuly 1, 2014, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law"; otherwise, this Act shall not become effective and shall be automatically repealed in its entirety onJuly 1, 2014, as required by subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-50.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 527,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
