# § 36-66B-2. Legislative findings and intent

(a) The General Assembly finds that the enactment of this chapter is necessary to:
  (1) Ensure the safe and efficient integration of facilities necessary for the provision of broadband and other advanced wireless communication services throughout this state;
  (2) Ensure the ready availability of reliable wireless communication services to the public to support personal communications, economic development, and the general welfare;
  (3) Encourage where feasible the modification or collocation of wireless facilities on existing wireless support structures over the construction of new wireless support structures in the deployment or expansion of commercial wireless networks; and
  (4) Allow the deployment of critical wireless infrastructure to ensure that first responders can provide for the health and safety of all residents of Georgia.
(b) While recognizing and confirming the purview of local governments to exercise zoning, land use, and permitting authority within their territorial boundaries with regard to the location, construction, and modification of wireless communication facilities, it is the intent of this chapter to establish procedural standards for the exercise of such authority so as to streamline and facilitate the construction, collocation, or modification of such facilities, including the placement of new or additional wireless facilities on existing wireless support structures. It is not the intent of this chapter to limit or preempt the scope of a local government's review of zoning, land use, or permitting applications for the siting of wireless facilities or wireless support structures or to require a local government to exercise its zoning power.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 569,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 430,§ 1, eff. 6/4/2010.
