# § 36-66B-3. Definitions

(1) "Accessory equipment" means any equipment serving or being used in conjunction with a wireless facility or wireless support structure and includes, but is not limited to, utility or transmission equipment, power supplies, generators, batteries, cables, equipment buildings, cabinets, and storage sheds, shelters, or similar structures.
(2) "Antenna" means communications equipment that transmits, receives, or transmits and receives electromagnetic radio signals used in the provision of all types of wireless communication services.
(3) "Application" means a formal request submitted to the local governing authority to construct, collocate, or modify a wireless support structure or a wireless facility.
(4) "Collocate" or "collocation" means the placement or installation of new wireless facilities on previously approved and constructed wireless support structures, including monopoles and towers, both self-supporting and guyed, in a manner that negates the need to construct a new freestanding wireless support structure. Such term includes the placement of accessory equipment within an existing equipment compound.
(5) "Complete application" means an application containing all documents, information, and fees specifically enumerated in or required by the local governing authority's regulations, ordinances, and forms pertaining to the location, construction, collocation, modification, or operation of wireless facilities.
(6) "Equipment compound" means an area surrounding or adjacent to the base of a wireless support structure within which accessory equipment is located.
(7) "Local governing authority" means a municipality or county that has adopted land use or zoning regulations for all or the majority of land uses within its jurisdiction or has adopted separate regulations pertaining to the location, construction, collocation, modification, or operation of wireless facilities.
(8) "Modification" or "modify" means the improvement, upgrade, expansion, or replacement of existing wireless facilities on an existing wireless support structure or within an existing equipment compound, provided such improvement, upgrade, expansion, or replacement does not increase the height of the wireless support structure or increase the dimensions of the equipment compound.
(9) "Registry" means any official list, record, or register maintained by a local governing authority of wireless facilities, equipment compounds, or wireless support structures.
(10) "Utility" means any person, corporation, municipality, county, or other entity, or department thereof or entity related or subordinate thereto, providing retail or wholesale electric, data, cable, or telecommunications services.
(11) "Wireless facility" means the set of equipment and network components, exclusive of the underlying wireless support structure, including antennas, transmitters, receivers, base stations, power supplies, cabling, and accessory equipment, used to provide wireless data and wireless telecommunication services.
(12) "Wireless support structure" means a freestanding structure, such as a monopole, tower, either guyed or self-supporting, or suitable existing or alternative structure designed to support or capable of supporting wireless facilities. Such term shall not include any telephone or electrical utility pole or any tower used for the distribution or transmission of electrical service.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 569,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 430,§ 1, eff. 6/4/2010.
