# § 50-5C-6. Termination for default; assumption of responsibilities and duties; eminent domain power not delegated; other powers

(a) In the event of a material default by the private entity, the responsible public entity may terminate, with cause, the comprehensive agreement and exercise any other rights and remedies that may be available to it at law or in equity, including, but not limited to, claims under the maintenance, performance, or payment bonds; other forms of security; or letters of credit required by Code Section 50-5C-5 in accordance with Code Sections 13-10-40 through 13-10-65.
(b) The responsible public entity may elect to assume the responsibilities and duties of the private entity of the qualifying project, and in such case, it shall succeed to all of the rights, title, and interest in such qualifying project.
(c) The power of eminent domain shall not be delegated to any private entity with respect to any project commenced or proposed pursuant to this chapter. Any responsible public entity having the power of condemnation under state law may exercise such power of condemnation to acquire the qualifying project in the event of a material default by the private entity. Any person who has perfected a security interest in the qualifying project may participate in the condemnation proceedings with the standing of a property owner.
(d) In the event the responsible public entity elects to take over a qualifying project pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, the responsible public entity may develop the qualifying project, impose user fees, and impose and collect lease payments for the use thereof.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 50, eff. 5/9/2017.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 72,§ 3, eff. 5/5/2015.
