# § 29-2-6. Parental consent to temporary guardianship; failure to consent; minor's preference; transfer to juvenile court

(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (f) of this Code section, if the sole parent or both parents of the minor have consented to the appointment of the temporary guardian, as evidenced by notarized written consents attached to the petition, the court shall grant the petition without further notice or hearing and shall issue letters of guardianship to the petitioner.
(b)
  (1) If one or both of the parents of the minor have not consented to the appointment of the temporary guardian, notice of the petition shall be given to any parent who has not consented.
  (2) The notice shall be by personal service if the parent resides in this state at a known address; by first-class mail if the parent resides outside this state at a known address; or by publication for two weeks in the official county legal organ for the county in which the petition is filed if no address is known.
  (3) The notice shall state that the parent is entitled to object either to the establishment of a temporary guardianship or to the selection of the petitioner as temporary guardian, or both.
  (4) The notice shall require that any objection be filed in writing with the court within ten days of the personal service, within 14 days of the mailing of the notice, or within ten days of the date of the second publication of the notice.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (f) of this Code section, if no parent who is entitled to notice under subsection (b) of this Code section files a timely objection to the petition, the court shall grant the petition without further notice or hearing and shall issue letters of guardianship to the petitioner.
(d) If a natural guardian of the minor files a timely objection to the establishment of the temporary guardianship, the court shall dismiss the petition. If a natural guardian files a timely objection to the selection of the petitioner as temporary guardian, the court shall hold a hearing to determine who shall serve as temporary guardian.
(e) If a parent who is not a natural guardian files a timely objection to the establishment of the temporary guardianship or to the selection of the petitioner as temporary guardian, the court shall hold a hearing to determine all matters at issue.
(f)
  (1) In all hearings held pursuant to this Code section, the standard for determination for all matters at issue shall be the best interests of the minor, as determined in accordance with Code Section 15-11-26 and other applicable Georgia law. As to the selection of the temporary guardian, the preference of the minor may be heard.
  (2) In all proceedings under this Code section, the court may, in its discretion, enter an order transferring the petition to the juvenile court, which shall, after notice and hearing, determine whether the temporary guardianship is in the best interests of the minor.
  (3) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, an order by the court transferring the petition to the juvenile court pursuant to paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be a proper order of the court under paragraph (4) of Code Section 15-11-11.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 742,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Former § 29-2-6 repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
