# § 29-2-51. Appointment of successor guardian; notice; preference to selected individuals; order of appointment

(a) The court shall appoint a successor guardian upon the resignation, death, or revocation of the letters of the guardian if the appointment of a successor guardian is in the best interest of the minor. The court shall select the successor guardian in the manner provided in Code Section 29-2-16.
(b) In the event of the resignation or death of the guardian, notice of the proceeding for appointment of a successor guardian shall be given as provided in Code Sections 29-2-40 and 29-2-41. In all other cases, notice of the proceeding for appointment of a successor guardian shall be served personally on the minor and a guardian ad litem appointed for the minor. Notice shall be given by first-class mail to the conservator of the minor, if any, and, in the following order of preference, to the following relatives of the minor whose whereabouts are known and who must be persons other than the proposed successor guardian:
  (1) The adult siblings of the minor; provided, however, that not more than three adult siblings need be served;
  (2) If there is no adult sibling of the minor, the grandparents of the minor; provided, however, that not more than three grandparents need be served; or
  (3) If there is no grandparent of the minor, any three of the nearest adult relatives of the minor determined according to Code Section 53-2-1.
(c) After such hearing as the court deems appropriate, the court shall enter an order appointing the successor guardian.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 233,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2020.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 29, eff. 5/13/2011.
Former § 29-2-51 repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
