# § 29-2-15. "Biological father" defined; notice of petition for appointment of permanent guardian; protest of father; petition to legitimate

(a) For purposes of this part, the term "biological father" means a father of a minor born out of wedlock whose rights regarding the minor have not been surrendered or terminated but who is not entitled to have custody of and exercise parental power over the child pursuant to Code Section 19-7-25.
(b)
  (1) Notice of a petition for appointment of a permanent guardian of a minor shall be given to the minor's biological father, if any, in the following circumstances:
    (A) If the identity of the biological father is known to the petitioner;
    (B) If the biological father is a registrant on the putative father registry who has acknowledged paternity of the minor in accordance with subparagraph (d)(2)(A) of Code Section 19-11-9;
    (C) If the biological father is a registrant on the putative father registry who has indicated possible paternity of a child of the minor's mother during a period beginning two years immediately prior to the minor's date of birth in accordance with subparagraph (d)(2)(B) of Code Section 19-11-9; or
    (D) If the biological father has lived with the minor; contributed to the minor's support; made any attempt to legitimate the minor; or provided support or medical care for the mother either during her pregnancy or during her hospitalization for the birth of the minor.
  (2) The notice shall advise the biological father that he will lose all rights to object to the appointment of a permanent guardian for the minor if he does not file an objection with the court within 14 days of the notice and file a petition to legitimate the minor within 30 days of the hearing on his objection. The notice shall include the name of the individual who will be the minor's permanent guardian if the petition is granted.
(c) If the biological father files a timely objection to the petition, the court shall hear the objection and, if the biological father makes a request, shall continue the hearing for 30 days to allow the father to file a petition to legitimate the minor pursuant to Code Section 19-7-22. If the biological father's petition for legitimation of the minor is granted, the petition for the appointment of a permanent guardian for the minor shall be dismissed.
(d) If the biological father does not file a petition for legitimation within 30 days or files a petition that is subsequently dismissed for failure to prosecute or files a petition and the action is subsequently concluded without a court order declaring that he is the father of the minor, the biological father shall have no further rights to receive notice of or object to the appointment of a permanent guardian for the minor.

## History

Former § 29-2-15 repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
