# § 29-2-41. Appointment of successor guardian

(a) In the event of the death of a guardian, and upon the petition of an interested person or upon the court's own motion, the court shall appoint a successor guardian. The court shall notify the minor and any guardian ad litem appointed for the minor by personal service. Notice shall be given by first-class mail to the conservator of the minor, if any, to the personal representative of the deceased guardian, if any, and, in the following order of preference, to the following relatives of the minor whose whereabouts are known and who must be persons other than the proposed successor guardian:
  (1) The adult siblings of the minor; provided, however, that not more than three adult siblings need be served;
  (2) If there is no adult sibling of the minor, the grandparents of the minor; provided, however, that not more than three grandparents need be served; or
  (3) If there is no grandparent of the minor, any three of the nearest adult relatives of the minor determined according to Code Section 53-2-1.
(b) After such hearing as the court deems appropriate, the court shall enter an order appointing a successor guardian in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 29-2-51 requiring the personal representative of the deceased guardian to turn over to the successor guardian all property of the minor held by the guardian.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 29, eff. 5/13/2011.
Former § 29-2-41 repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
