# § 29-2-8. Termination of temporary guardianship; petition for termination of guardianship

(a) A temporary guardianship shall terminate on the date upon which the earliest of the following occurs: the minor reaches age 18, the minor is adopted, the minor is emancipated, the minor dies, the temporary guardian dies, letters of guardianship are issued to a permanent or testamentary guardian, or a court order terminating the temporary guardianship is entered. Proof of adoption, death, or emancipation shall be filed with the court and the court may order a hearing in an appropriate case.
(b) Either natural guardian of the minor may at any time petition the court to terminate a temporary guardianship; provided, however, that notice of such petition shall be provided to the temporary guardian. If no objection to the termination is filed by the temporary guardian within ten days of the notice, the court shall order the termination of the temporary guardianship. If the temporary guardian objects to the termination of the temporary guardianship within ten days of the notice, the court shall have the option to hear the objection or transfer the records relating to the temporary guardianship to the juvenile court, which shall determine, after notice and hearing, whether a continuation or termination of the temporary guardianship is in the best interest of the minor.

## History

Former § 29-2-8 repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
