# § 46-9-326. Revenue bonds, notes, and other obligations

Revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations issued by the authority shall be paid solely from the property, including, but not limited to, real property, fixtures, personal property, revenues, or other funds pledged, mortgaged, conveyed, assigned, hypothecated, or otherwise encumbered to secure or to pay such bonds, notes, or other obligations. All revenue bonds, notes, and other obligations shall be authorized by resolution of the authority, adopted by a majority vote of the members of the authority at a regular or special meeting. Such revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bear such date or dates, shall mature at such time or times not more than 40 years from their respective date, shall bear interest at such rate or rates which may be fixed or may fluctuate or otherwise change from time to time, shall be subject to redemption on such terms, and shall contain such other terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions as the resolution authorizing the issuance of such bonds, notes, or other obligations may permit or provide. The terms, provisions, covenants, assignments, and conditions contained in or provided or permitted by any resolution of the authority authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations shall bind the members of the authority then in office and their successors. The authority shall have power from time to time and whenever it deems refunding expedient to refund any bonds by the issuance of new bonds, whether the bonds to be refunded have or have not matured, and may issue bonds partly to refund bonds then outstanding and partly for any other purpose permitted under this article. The refunding bonds may be exchanged for the bonds to be refunded with such cash adjustments as may be agreed upon or may be sold and the proceeds applied to the purchase or redemption of the bonds to be refunded. There shall be no limitation upon the amount of revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations which any authority may issue. Any limitation with respect to interest rates or any maximum interest rate or rates found in the usury laws of the State of Georgia, or any other laws of the State of Georgia, shall not apply to revenue bonds, notes, or other obligations of the authority.
