# § 46-9-324. Membership; civil office; chairperson; conflicts of interest; compensation

(a) The authority shall be composed of members appointed by governing authorities of counties and municipalities within the service area as provided by this subsection. The governing authorities of the Counties of Crisp and Sumter and the municipalities of Americus, Cordele, Leslie, and Plains shall each appoint two members. Two members each shall be appointed by the governing authority of any other county which is within the service area, or any municipality within such county, and in which such county or municipality a rail passenger service station or stop of the authority is located. Terms of members appointed by any county governing authority shall expire on December 31, 2002, and biennially thereafter. Terms of members appointed by the governing authority of any municipality shall expire on December 31, 2001, and biennially thereafter. Members shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified; provided, however, that any member of the authority may be removed at any time, with or without cause, by the governing authority which appointed such member. Any member of the authority may be selected and appointed to succeed himself or herself. Any vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term, and any appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made in the same manner as the original appointment.
(b)
  (1) Membership of the authority shall be a civil office for purposes of the eligibility requirements provided by Code Section 45-2-1, except that the residency requirement for any person appointed to the authority shall be residence in the jurisdiction of the appointing local governing authority for a period of at least 12 months prior to such person's appointment.
  (2) A member of the appointing local governing authority may be appointed as a member of the authority, but his or her seat on the authority shall be vacant immediately upon his or her ceasing to be a member of the appointing local governing authority. Such person may be reappointed as a member of the authority to fill such vacancy.
(c) The members of the authority shall in January of each year elect one of their number as chairperson. Also, the members of the authority shall elect one of their number as vice chairperson, shall also elect one of their number as secretary, and may also elect one of their number as treasurer. The secretary may also serve as treasurer. Each of such officers shall serve for a period of one year and until their successors are duly elected and qualified. The chairperson of the authority shall be entitled to vote upon any issue, motion, or resolution.
(d) A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all of the rights and perform all of the duties of the authority.
(e) A vacancy on the authority shall exist in the office of any member of the authority who is convicted of a felony or who enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who is convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude or who enters a plea of nolo contendere thereto; who moves such person's residence from the jurisdiction of the appointing authority; who is convicted of any act of misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance of such person's duties as a member of the authority; who fails to attend at least three consecutive meetings of the authority without an excuse approved by a resolution of the authority; or who is ineligible for civil office for any other reason provided by Code Section 45-2-1.
(f) All meetings of the authority shall be open to the public as provided in Chapter 14 of Title 50. The authority may hold public hearings on its own initiative or at the request of residents of any area affected by the actions of the authority.
(g) No member or employee of the authority shall have, directly or indirectly, any financial interest, profit, or benefit in any contract, work, or business of the authority nor in the sale, lease, or purchase of any property to or from the authority.
(h) The members shall receive no compensation for their services, but all members shall be entitled to be reimbursed out of funds of the authority for actual expenses, including travel and any other expenses, incurred while in the performance of their duties. Employees of the authority shall receive reasonable compensation, to be determined by the members of the authority, for their services. Employees of the authority shall not be members of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 46, eff. 2/12/2001.
