# § 46-9-274. Membership of authority; filling of vacancies; disclosure of pecuniary interests; election of officers; expense allowance and travel costs

(a) The authority shall be composed of members appointed by the Governor. One member shall be appointed from and shall be a resident of each of the congressional districts and two members shall be appointed from the state at large. All members shall be appointed for terms of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. The Governor, in making appointments to the authority, shall consider obtaining reasonable representation thereon of persons from the tourism and hospitality industry, the manufacturing industry, the banking and finance industry, citizens and consumers, labor, and the transportation industry, but it is specifically provided that the appointments shall be at the discretion of the Governor. In the event of a vacancy on the authority, the Governor shall fill such vacancy for the unexpired term.
(b) If any member of the authority has any pecuniary interest in a project, the fact of such interest shall be disclosed by such member and recorded on the minutes of the authority. The member shall abstain from urging the approval of or voting on any project in which the member has a pecuniary interest.
(c) At its first meeting in each year, the members of the authority shall elect from among themselves a chairman and such other officers of the authority as may be required by the authority, for a term of one year.
(d) Each member of the authority shall receive an expense allowance and reimbursement for travel costs as provided in Code Section 45-7-21. A like sum shall be paid to a member of the authority who attends an approved meeting, event, or other function other than an authority meeting as an official representative of the authority.
