# § 2-6-27. State Soil and Water Conservation Commission - Additional duties and powers

(1) To offer such assistance as may be appropriate to the supervisors of the soil and water conservation districts in the carrying out of any of their powers and programs;
(2) To keep the supervisors of each of the districts informed of the activities and experiences of all the other districts and to facilitate an interchange of advice, experience, and cooperation between such districts;
(3) To coordinate the programs of the districts so far as this may be done by advice and consultation;
(4) To secure the cooperation and assistance of the United States and any of its agencies and of the agencies and counties of this state in the work of such districts;
(5) To disseminate information throughout this state concerning the activities and programs of the districts and to encourage the formation of such districts in areas where their organization is desirable;
(6) To receive gifts, appropriations, materials, equipment, land, and facilities and to manage, operate, and disperse the same;
(7) To formulate such rules and regulations, to exercise such powers, and to perform such duties as are necessary to implement the administration of the federal Watershed Protection and Flood Prevention Act;
(7.1) To formulate such rules and regulations in consultation with the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources, to exercise such powers, and to perform such duties as are necessary to implement the administration of the education and training program established under Code Section 12-7-19;
(8) To enter into contracts and agreements with the districts, municipalities, and counties of this state, other agencies of this state, the United States and any agencies thereof, any association, any landowner or land occupier, or any person in order to carry out the purposes of this article; and
(9) To receive grants from any agency of the United States government or any agency of this state, and to make grants to districts, municipalities, or counties in this state, or other state agencies in order to:
  (A) Fund up to 20 percent of the cost of obtaining permits for and constructing improvements to any dam that was originally constructed or financially assisted by the Natural Resources Conservation Service, formerly known as the Soil Conservation Service, of the United States Department of Agriculture; or
  (B) Carry out other purposes of this article.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 483,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 17,§ 2, eff. 4/8/2015.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 578,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 36, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 357, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
