# § 2-6-22. Definitions

(1) "Commission" or "State Soil and Water Conservation Commission" means the agency created in Code Section 2-6-23.
(2) "District" or "soil and water conservation district" means an agency of this state organized in accordance with this article for the purposes, with the powers, and subject to the restrictions set forth in this article.
(3) "Due notice" means notice published at least twice, with an interval of at least seven days between the two publication dates, in a newspaper or other publication of general circulation within the appropriate area or, if no such publication of general circulation is available, notice given by posting at a reasonable number of conspicuous places within the appropriate area, including, where possible, public places where it is customary to post notices concerning county or municipal affairs generally. At any hearing held pursuant to such notice, at the time and place designated in such notice, adjournment may be made from time to time without the necessity of renewing such notice for such adjourned dates.
(4) "Land occupier" or "occupier of land" means any person, firm, or corporation, other than the owner, who is in possession of any lands lying within a soil and water conservation district, whether as lessee, renter, tenant, or otherwise.
(5) "Landowner" or "owner of land" means any person, firm, or corporation who holds legal or equitable title to any lands lying within a soil and water conservation district.
(6) "Qualified elector" means any person qualified to vote in elections by the people under the Constitution of this state.
(7) "Supervisor" means one of the members of the governing body of a soil and water conservation district, elected or appointed in accordance with this article.
