# § 2-6-30. District supervisors - Election procedure for elected supervisors

(a) Within 30 days after the date of issuance by the Secretary of State of a certificate of organization for a soil and water conservation district, nominating petitions may be filed with the commission to nominate candidates for supervisors of such district. The commission shall have authority to extend the time within which nominating petitions may be filed. No such nominating petition shall be accepted by the commission unless it is subscribed by 25 or more qualified electors of the county in which the nominee resides. Qualified electors may sign more than one such nominating petition to nominate more than one candidate for supervisor.
(b) The commission shall be required to give due notice of an election only in the particular county in which an election is to be held. The ballot for each county shall contain only the names of the nominees from that county and the electors of each county shall be eligible to vote only for the nominees of their particular county. The names of all nominees within the county on behalf of whom nominating petitions have been filed within the time designated shall appear upon the ballots arranged in the alphabetical order of their surnames, with a square before each name and a direction to insert an "X" in the square appearing before the name of the person for whom the elector desires to vote. The nominee receiving the highest number of votes shall be declared the duly elected district supervisor from that county.
(c) The commission shall pay all the expenses of such election, shall supervise the conduct thereof, shall prescribe regulations governing the conduct of such election and the determination of the eligibility of voters therein, and shall publish the results thereof.
