# § 2-6-32. District supervisors - Services of county agricultural agents; employees and agents; copies of rules, orders, and other documents; surety bonds; removal of supervisor; consultation

(a) The supervisors of a district may utilize the services of the county agricultural agents and the facilities of the county agricultural agents' offices insofar as practicable and feasible. With the approval of the commission they may employ additional employees and agents, permanent and temporary, as they may require and may determine their qualifications, duties, and compensation. The supervisors may delegate to their chairman, to one or more supervisors, or to one or more agents or employees such powers and duties as they may deem proper.
(b) The supervisors shall furnish to the commission, upon request, copies of such rules, regulations, orders, contracts, forms, and other documents as they shall adopt or employ and such other information concerning their activities as the commission may require in the performance of its duties under this article.
(c) The supervisors shall provide for the execution of surety bonds for all employees and officers who are entrusted with funds or property. They shall provide for the keeping of a full and accurate record of all proceedings and of all resolutions, regulations, and orders issued or adopted and shall provide to the commission summary financial data listing cash receipts and disbursements for each state fiscal year.
(d) Any supervisor may be removed by the commission, upon notice and hearing, for neglect of duty or malfeasance in office, but for no other reason.
(e) The supervisors of a district may invite the legislative body of any municipality or county located near the territory comprised within the district to designate a representative to advise and consult with the supervisors on all questions of program and policy which may affect the property, water supply, or other interests of such municipality or county.
