# § 2-6-31. District supervisors - Chairman; terms of office of elected supervisors; filling vacancies; quorum; compensation and expenses

(a) The supervisors shall designate a chairman and from time to time may change such designation.
(b)
  (1) The term of office of each elected supervisor shall be four years, except as otherwise provided by paragraph (2) of this subsection. An elected supervisor shall hold office until his or her successor has been elected and has qualified. Successors to elected supervisors shall be elected at the general election immediately preceding the expiration of terms and shall take office the first day of January immediately following that election.
  (2)
    (A) The terms of those persons elected as supervisors in 2003 and whose terms have not expired as of the date that implementation of this paragraph is permissible under the Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, shall expire on December 31, 2008.
    (B) The terms of those persons elected as supervisors in 2004 and whose terms have not expired as of the date that implementation of this paragraph is permissible under the Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, shall expire on December 31, 2008.
    (C) The terms of those persons elected as supervisors in 2005 shall expire on December 31, 2010.
    (D) The terms of those persons elected as supervisors in 2006 shall expire on December 31, 2010.
    (E) If any persons were elected as supervisors on or after January 1, 2007, but prior to the date that implementation of this paragraph is permissible under the Voting Rights Act of 1965, as amended, then the terms of such persons shall expire on December 31, 2012.
(c)
  (1) Any vacancy in the office an appointed supervisor shall be filled for the unexpired term. The selection of any person to fill an unexpired term of an appointed supervisor shall be made in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.
  (2) Any vacancy occurring in the office of an elected supervisor shall be filled as follows:
    (A) If the vacancy occurs more than 90 days prior to the date of a general election preceding the general election at which a successor will be elected to a new full term of office, then such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term of office at a special election to be held on the same date as said general election preceding the general election at which a successor will be elected to a new full term of office; and in such case the Governor shall select a qualified person from among two persons nominated by the remaining supervisors of the district to fill the vacancy until the person elected at such special election takes office; and
    (B) If the vacancy does not occur more than 90 days prior to the date of a general election preceding the general election at which a successor will be elected to a new full term of office, then the Governor shall select a qualified person from among two persons nominated by the remaining supervisors of the district to fill the vacancy for the unexpired term.
(d) A majority of the supervisors shall constitute a quorum; and the concurrence of a majority of the supervisors in any matter within their duties shall be required for its determination.
(e) The commission is authorized to fix a per diem payment for supervisors; in addition thereto, such supervisors shall be entitled to the regular mileage allowances provided for state employees if such supervisors travel by private conveyance and to their actual travel expenses if they travel by public conveyance.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 150,§ 1, eff. 5/18/2007.
