# § 2-6-52. Creation of Agricultural Water Conservation Incentive Program; purpose; participation; funding

(a) There is created the Agricultural Water Conservation Incentive Program. The program shall be developed, implemented, and supervised by the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
(b) The purpose of the program shall be to provide incentives to agricultural producers to foster water conservation and enhance water quality.
(c) Participation in the program shall be voluntary.
(d) The program shall include all 159 counties and 40 soil and water conservation districts.
(e) Priority designations for inclusion in the program shall be under the authority of the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
(f) Areas shall be included in the program as the funds are appropriated and the technical assistance becomes available from the local soil and water conservation district or the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission.
(g) Funding may be provided to assist practices including but not limited to diversions, filter strips, fencing along streams, field borders, alternative watering systems, critical area plantings, grassed waterways, terraces, surface-water retention structures, heavy-use areas, closures of farm animal manure lagoons, riparian buffers or equivalent controls, animal manure waste systems and application, manure stack houses and other manure-holding structures, irrigation system enhancements, and other projects that foster water conservation and enhance water quality.
(h) Priority designation for inclusion in this program for state funding shall be given to projects that foster water conservation and enhance water quality. To be eligible for cost share funds under this Code section, a project shall be evaluated before funding is awarded and after the project is completed to determine the impact on water quality.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 470, § 1, eff. 5/10/2004.
