# § 2-6-23. State Soil and Water Conservation Commission - Established; composition; terms of office; ex officio advisers; seal; rules and regulations

(a) There is established, to serve as an agency of the state and to perform the functions conferred upon it in this article, the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission. The commission shall be assigned to the Department of Agriculture for administrative purposes only, as prescribed in Code Section 50-4-3.
(b) Commencing with appointments for the year 2015, the Governor shall appoint one at-large member from each of the five soil and water conservation district regions to serve on the commission. Such initial appointments shall be for terms of office of one, two, three, four, and five years, respectively. Thereafter, successors shall be appointed for terms of office of five years and until their successors are duly appointed.
(c) The following persons shall serve ex officio in an advisory capacity to the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission:
  (1) The associate dean for extension of the College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences of the University of Georgia;
  (2) The commissioner of natural resources;
  (3) The associate dean of research of the College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences of the University of Georgia;
  (4) The executive director of the Agricultural Stabilization Conservation Service;
  (5) The Georgia state director of the Farmer's Home Administration;
  (6) The director of the Southern Piedmont Conservation Research Center;
  (7) The president of the Georgia Association of Conservation District Supervisors;
  (8) The director of the State Forestry Commission;
  (9) The Georgia supervisor of national forests of the U.S. Forestry Service;
  (10) The state conservationist of the U.S. Natural Resources Conservation Service;
  (11) The dean and director of the College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences of the University of Georgia;
  (12) The director of the Career, Technical, and Agricultural Education Division of the Department of Education;
  (13) The Commissioner of Agriculture; and
  (14) Such other representatives of state or federal agencies as the commission deems desirable.
(d) The commission shall adopt a seal, which shall be judicially noticed. It may perform such acts, hold such public hearings, and promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the execution of its functions under this article.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 2, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 17,§ 1, eff. 4/8/2015.
