# § 44-12-261. Inventory of American Indian human remains or burial objects in possession of museum; additional documentation upon request of American Indian tribe; construction of part; extension of time to complete inventory and identification; notification of affected tribes

(a) Any museum having possession or control over holdings or collections of American Indian human remains or burial objects shall compile an inventory of such items and, to the extent possible based on information possessed by such museum, identify the geographical and cultural affiliation of such items.
(b) The inventory and identification required under subsection (a) of this Code section shall be:
  (1) Completed in consultation with American Indian tribes;
  (2) Completed by not later than July 1, 1997; and
  (3) Made available to the Secretary of State and the council both during the time conducted and afterward.
(c) Upon the request of any American Indian tribe, a museum shall supply additional available documentation to supplement the information required by subsection (a) of this Code section. Such documentation shall consist of a summary of existing museum records, including inventories or catalogs, relevant studies, and other pertinent data for the limited purpose of determining the geographical origin, cultural affiliation, and basic facts surrounding the acquisition and accession of American Indian human remains and burial objects subject to this Code section.
(d) This part shall not be construed to be an authorization for the initiation of new scientific studies of human remains and burial objects or the initiation of any other method of acquiring or preserving additional scientific information from such remains and objects.
(e) Any museum which has made a good faith effort to carry out an inventory and identification under this Code section, but which has been unable to complete the process, may appeal to the Secretary of State for an extension of the time requirement set forth in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section. The Secretary of State may once grant an extension of up to one year for any such museum upon a finding of good faith effort. An indication of good faith shall include the development of a plan to carry out the inventory and identification process.
(f) If the cultural affiliation of any particular American Indian human remains or burial objects is determined pursuant to this Code section, the museum concerned shall not later than six months after the completion of the inventory notify the affected American Indian tribes. The notice shall include information:
  (1) Which identifies or describes each American Indian human remains or burial object and the circumstances surrounding its acquisition;
  (2) Which lists the human remains or burial objects that are clearly identifiable as to tribal origin; and
  (3) Which lists the American Indian human remains and burial objects that are not clearly identifiable as being culturally affiliated with that Indian tribe, but which, given the totality of circumstances surrounding acquisition of the remains or objects, are determined by a reasonable belief to be remains or objects culturally affiliated with the Indian tribe.
