# § 44-12-320. Lien created; notice; enforcement; public auction authorized

(a) Molders shall have a lien, dependent on possession, on all dies, molds, forms, or patterns in their hands belonging to a customer, for the balance due them from such customer for any manufacturing or fabrication work related to the property on which the molder claims the lien. Such liens shall attach upon the commencement of work by the molder and shall be subject to any prior perfected security interest in such property as of the commencement date. The molder may retain possession of the die, mold, form, or pattern until the charges are paid or until repossessed by a creditor with a prior perfected security interest.
(b) Before enforcing such lien, notice in writing shall be given to the customer, whether delivered personally or sent by registered mail or statutory overnight delivery to the last known address of the customer. Such notice shall state that a lien is claimed for the damages set forth in or attached to such writing for manufacturing or fabrication work contracted or performed for the customer. Such notice shall also include a demand for payment.
(c) A lien may not be enforced under this part if the customer, within the time period provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, notifies the molder that the products fail to meet an approved quality control plan, the products deviated from approved samples, or the products deviated from previously accepted parts and the customer returns the products within 60 days after the date on which the products are delivered to the customer.
(d) If the molder has not been paid the amount due within 60 days after the notice has been received by the customer as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section and the products have not been returned to the molder within 60 days after the date on which the products are delivered to the customer because of a defective condition as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, the molder may sell the die, mold, form, or pattern at a public auction.
(e) In no event shall the amount of the lien established by this Code section exceed the contract price of services performed by the molder.
