# § 44-12-239.1. Data base for unclaimed accounts

(a) The commissioner shall provide a registered claimant's designated representative with access to a downloadable or deliverable, searchable and sortable data base for all unclaimed accounts containing the following information, if provided by the holder:
  (1) Name of the apparent owner. If the property is from an insurance policy, the name of the insured and beneficiary, if applicable;
  (2) Last known address of the apparent owner. If the apparent owner is the insured under an insurance policy, the address of the beneficiary, if applicable;
  (3) Owner account relation utilized by the National Association of Unclaimed Property Administrators;
  (4) Amount of cash, if applicable;
  (5) For unliquidated securities or mutual funds account, the number of shares, the name of the issuer of the security or mutual funds account, and the Committee on Uniform Securities Identification Procedures number, if available;
  (6) For safe-deposit box contents, descriptions that are substantially similar to those utilized by the National Association of Unclaimed Property Administrators;
  (7) Property type descriptions that are substantially similar to those utilized by the National Association of Unclaimed Property Administrators;
  (8) Date of last activity;
  (9) Year property was reported to the commissioner; and
  (10) Holder's name and contact information.
(b) A claimant's designated representative who receives unclaimed property information from the commissioner is prohibited from distributing such information except for the purpose of soliciting owners of unclaimed property to offer claim services. The commissioner may refer a suspected violation of this Code section to the Attorney General for prosecution.
(c) Notwithstanding Code Section 44-12-225, information identified in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be deemed confidential to registered claimant's designated representatives.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 81,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2024.
