# § 44-12-216. Assumption of custody by state; legal proceedings instituted by other state; reimbursements for costs to safe-deposit box holders

(a) Upon payment or delivery of abandoned property to the commissioner, the state shall assume custody and shall be responsible for the safekeeping of the property. Any person who pays or delivers abandoned property to the commissioner under this article is relieved of all liability, to the extent of the value of the property so paid or delivered, or for any claim which then exists or which thereafter may arise or be made with respect to the property. Any holder who has paid moneys to the commissioner pursuant to this article may reimburse any person appearing to such holder to be entitled thereto; and, upon proof of such payment and proof that the payee was entitled thereto, the commissioner shall forthwith reimburse the holder for the payment.
(b) In the event legal proceedings are instituted by any other state or states in any state or federal court with respect to unclaimed funds or abandoned property previously paid or delivered to the commissioner, the holder shall give written notification to the commissioner and the Attorney General of this state of such proceedings within ten days after service of process or at least ten days before the return date on which an answer or similar pleading is due or any extension thereof is secured by the holder. The Attorney General may take such action as he deems necessary or expedient to protect the interest of this state. The Attorney General, by written notice prior to the return date on which an answer or similar pleading is due or any extension thereof is secured by the holder, but in any event in reasonably sufficient time for the holder to comply with the directions received, shall either direct the holder actively to defend in the proceedings or direct that no defense be entered into the proceedings. If a direction is received from the Attorney General that the holder need not make a defense, this shall not preclude the holder from entering a defense in his own name if he should so choose. However, any defense made by the holder on his own initiative shall not entitle the holder to reimbursement for legal fees, costs, and other expenses as is provided in this Code section with respect to defenses made pursuant to the direction of the Attorney General. After the holder has actively defended in the proceedings pursuant to the direction of the Attorney General or has been notified in writing by the Attorney General that no defense need be made with respect to such funds, if a judgment is entered against the holder for any amount paid to the commissioner under this article, the commissioner, upon being furnished either proof of payment or satisfaction of such judgment, shall reimburse the holder the amount so paid. The commissioner shall also reimburse the holder for any legal fees, costs, and other directly related expenses incurred in legal proceedings undertaken pursuant to the direction of the Attorney General.
(c) Property removed from a safe-deposit box or other safekeeping repository that is received by the commissioner shall be subject to the holder's right under this Code section to be reimbursed for the actual cost of the opening and to any valid lien or contract providing for the holder to be reimbursed for unpaid rent or storage charges. The commissioner shall make the reimbursement to the holder out of the proceeds remaining after the deduction of the commissioner's selling costs.
