# § 44-12-237. Unclaimed United States Savings Bond

(a) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of Code Section 44-12-216, United States savings bonds which are unclaimed property and subject to the provisions of Code Section 44-12-190, et seq., the "Disposition of Unclaimed Property Act," shall escheat to the State of Georgia three years after becoming unclaimed property and subject to the provisions of Code Section 44-12-190, et seq., and all property rights to such United States savings bonds or proceeds from such bonds shall vest solely in the State of Georgia.
(b) If, within 180 days after the passage of three years pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, no claim has been filed in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 44-12-190, et seq., for such United States savings bonds, the commissioner shall commence a civil action in the Superior Court of Fulton County for a determination that such United States savings bonds shall escheat to the state. The commissioner may postpone the bringing of such action until sufficient United States savings bonds have accumulated in the commissioner's custody to justify the expense of such proceedings.
(c) If no person shall file a claim or appear at the hearing to substantiate a claim or if the court shall determine that a claimant is not entitled to the property claimed, then the court, if satisfied by evidence that the commissioner has substantially complied with the laws of this state, shall enter a judgment that the subject United States savings bonds have escheated to the state.
(d) The commissioner shall redeem such United States savings bonds, and the proceeds shall be deposited in the state general fund in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 44-12-218.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 145,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
