# § 39-2-11. Employment certificates - Required; requirements for issuance

(a) Minors who are at least 12 years of age but less than 16 years of age shall not be employed by or permitted to work for any person, firm, or corporation unless an employment certificate, showing the true age of such minor and that such minor is not less than 12 years of age and is physically fit to engage in the employment sought to be obtained, is issued in writing by an appropriate issuing officer who shall be one of the following:
  (1) If enrolled in a public school, the school superintendent or some member of his or her staff authorized by him or her, in the county or city where the minor resides;
  (2) If enrolled in a licensed private school, the principal administrative officer thereof or some member of his or her staff authorized by him or her; or
  (3) If enrolled in a home study program, the person, parent, or guardian providing the home study program.
(b) No employment certificate shall be issued to any minor until the minor shall have submitted to the issuing officer:
  (1) A certified copy of a birth certificate or birth registration card; and
  (2) A statement from the prospective employer describing the type of employment offered; and indicating that if furnished with a certificate from the appropriate issuing officer as required in subsection (a) of this Code section, such prospective employer could employ the minor immediately. It shall be understood that the prospective employer, by furnishing such statement, does not undertake to employ the minor for any specific period of time.
(c)
  (1) The employment certificate provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be accompanied by a letter from the appropriate issuing officer indicating that the minor is enrolled in a school or a home study program full-time and has an attendance record in good standing for the current academic year. The employer of a minor shall maintain a copy of such certificate and letter in the minor's employment file. Such letter shall be updated in January of each subsequent academic year during which the minor maintains his or her employment until such minor reaches the age of 16 years. Any employer failing to comply with this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be subject to a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, up to 12 months' imprisonment, or both, for each violation.
  (2) The State Board of Education shall promulgate rules and regulations to provide for the issuance of a waiver or exemption from the provisions of this subsection to a minor, upon such minor's petition, if there is clear and convincing evidence that the enforcement of the provisions of this subsection upon such minor would create an undue hardship upon the minor or the minor's family or if there is clear and convincing evidence that the enforcement of the provisions of this subsection would act as a detriment to the health or welfare of the minor.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 150,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 39, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 449, § 21A, eff. 5/4/2004.
