# § 13-8-32. Definitions

(1) "Distributor" or "wholesaler" means any person, company, or corporation who purchases farm equipment or implements or parts from a manufacturer and resells the same at wholesale to dealers.
(2) "Distributor or wholesaler branch" means a branch office maintained by a distributor or wholesaler which sells or distributes farm equipment or implements or parts to tractor or farm equipment dealers.
(3) "Distributor representative" means a representative employed by a distributor branch or distributor.
(4) "Factory branch" means a branch office maintained by a manufacturer which manufactures and assembles farm equipment or implements or parts for sale to distributors, tractor or farm equipment dealers, or wholesalers or which is maintained for directing and supervising the representatives of the manufacturer.
(5) "Factory representative" means a representative employed by a manufacturer or employed by a factory branch for the purpose of making or promoting the sale of farm equipment or implements or parts or for supervising, servicing, instructing, or contracting with farm equipment dealers or prospective dealers or wholesalers.
(6) "Farm equipment dealer" means any person who sells, solicits, or advertises the sale of farm equipment to the consuming public. It shall not include (A) receivers, trustees, administrators, executors, guardians, or other persons appointed by or acting under judgment, decree, or order of any court; (B) public officers while performing their duties as such officers; (C) persons making casual sales of their own item of farm equipment not subject to sales tax under the laws of the State of Georgia; (D) persons engaged in the auction sale of farm equipment; or (E) dealers in used farm equipment.
(7) "Farm equipment or implements" means those farm implements primarily designed for use in agriculture.
(8) "Franchise" means an oral or written agreement for a definite or indefinite period of time in which a manufacturer grants to a wholesaler permission to use a trade name, service mark, or related characteristic, and in which there is a community of interest in the marketing of farm equipment or implements or parts or services related thereto at wholesale whether by leasing, sale, or otherwise.
(9) "Franchisee" means a wholesaler to whom a franchise is offered or granted.
(10) "Franchisor" means a manufacturer who grants a franchise to a wholesaler.
(11) "Fraud" means, in addition to its normal legal connotation, the following: a misrepresentation in any manner, whether intentionally false or arising from gross negligence, of a material fact; a promise or representation not made honestly and in good faith; or an intentional failure to disclose a material fact.
(12) "Manufacturer" means any person engaged in the business of manufacturing or assembling farm equipment or implements or parts.
(13) "New farm equipment or implements" means a unit of farm equipment or implement which has not been previously sold to and put into regular use or service by any person except a wholesaler for resale.
(14) "Person" means a natural person, corporation, partnership, trust, or other business entity; and, in case of a business entity, it shall include any other entity in which it has a majority interest or effectively controls as well as the individual officers, directors, and other persons in active control of the activities of each such entity.
(15) "Sale" means the issuance, transfer, agreement for transfer, exchange, pledge, hypothecation, or mortgage in any form, whether by transfer in trust or otherwise, of any unit of farm equipment or implement or parts or interest therein or of any franchise related thereto; any option, subscription or other contract, or solicitation, looking to a sale, or offer or attempt to sell in any form, whether in oral or written form.
