# § 13-8-12. Definitions

(1) "Dealer" means any person who sells, maintains, solicits, or advertises the sale of new and used equipment to the consuming public. It shall not include (A) public officers while performing their duties as such officers; (B) persons making casual sales of their own equipment not subject to sales tax under the laws of the State of Georgia; (C) persons engaged in the auction sale of equipment; or (D) dealers in used equipment.
(2) "Dealership" means the business of selling or attempting to effect the sale by a dealer of new equipment or the right conferred by written or oral agreement with the manufacturer, distributor, or wholesaler for a definite or indefinite period of time to sell or attempt to effect the sale of new equipment.
(3) "Distributor" or "wholesaler" means any person, company, or corporation who sells or distributes new equipment to dealers and who maintains distributor representatives within the state.
(4) "Distributor branch" means a branch office maintained by a distributor or wholesaler which sells or distributes new equipment to dealers.
(5) "Distributor representative" means a representative employed by a distributor branch, distributor, or wholesaler.
(6) "Equipment" means tractors, farm equipment, or equipment primarily designed for or used in agriculture, horticulture, irrigation for agriculture or horticulture, and other such equipment which is considered tax exempt and sold by the franchised equipment dealer.
(7) "Factory branch" means a branch office maintained by a manufacturer which manufactures and assembles equipment for sale to distributors or dealers or which is maintained for directing and supervising the representatives of the manufacturer.
(8) "Factory representative" means a representative employed by a manufacturer or employed by a factory branch for the purpose of making or promoting the sale of equipment or for supervising, servicing, instructing, or contracting with equipment dealers or prospective dealers.
(9) "Franchise" means an oral or written agreement for a definite or indefinite period of time in which a manufacturer, distributor, or wholesaler grants to a dealer permission to use a trade name, service mark, or related characteristic, and in which there is a community of interest in the marketing of equipment or services related thereto at wholesale or retail, whether by leasing, sale, or otherwise.
(10) "Franchisee" means a dealer to whom a franchise is offered or granted.
(11) "Franchisor" means a manufacturer, distributor, or wholesaler who grants a franchise to a dealer.
(12) "Fraud" means, in addition to its normal legal connotation, the following: a misrepresentation in any manner, whether intentionally false or arising from gross negligence, of a material fact; a promise or representation not made honestly and in good faith; or an intentional failure to disclose a material fact.
(13) "Manufacturer" means any person engaged in the business of manufacturing or assembling new and unused equipment.
(14) "New equipment" means a unit of equipment which has not been previously sold to and put into regular use or service by any person except a distributor or wholesaler or dealer for resale.
(15) "Person" means a natural person, corporation, partnership, trust, or other business entity; and, in case of a business entity, it shall include any other entity in which it has a majority interest or which it effectively controls as well as the individual officers, directors, and other persons in active control of the activities of each such entity.
(16) "Relevant market area" means the geographic area for which a dealer is assigned responsibility for selling or soliciting or advertising the sale of equipment under the terms of a franchise.
(17) "Sale" means the issuance, transfer, agreement for transfer, exchange, pledge, hypothecation, or mortgage in any form, whether by transfer in trust or otherwise, of any unit of equipment or interest therein or of any franchise related thereto; any option, subscription or other contract, or solicitation looking to a sale; or an offer or attempt to sell in any form, whether in oral or written form.
(18) "Termination" of a contract or agreement means the termination, cancellation, nonrenewal, or noncontinuation of the contract or agreement.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 9,§ 13, eff. 5/14/2003.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 912,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
