# § 44-7-50. Demand for possession; procedure upon a tenant's refusal; notice to vacate or pay

(a) In all cases when a tenant holds possession of lands or tenements over and beyond the term for which they were rented or leased to such tenant and in all cases when lands or tenements are held and occupied by any tenant at will or sufferance, whether under contract of rent or not, when the owner of such lands or tenements desires possession of such lands or tenements, such owner may, individually or by an agent, attorney at law, or attorney in fact, demand the possession of the property so rented, leased, held, or occupied. If the tenant refuses or fails to deliver possession when so demanded, the owner or the agent, attorney at law, or attorney in fact of such owner may immediately go before the judge of the superior court, the judge of the state court, or the clerk or deputy clerk of either court, or the judge or the clerk or deputy clerk of any other court with jurisdiction over the subject matter, or a magistrate in the district where the land lies and make an affidavit under oath to the facts. Such affidavit may likewise be made before a notary public.
(b) If issued by a public housing authority, the demand for possession required by subsection (a) or (c) of this Code section may be provided concurrently with the federally required notice of lease termination in a separate writing.
(c) In all cases when a tenant fails to pay the rent, late fees, utilities, or other charges owed to the landlord when it becomes due, if the tenant refuses to pay the amount due or fails to deliver possession when so demanded after being provided with a notice to vacate or pay all past due rent, late fees, utilities, and other charges owed to the landlord within three business days, the owner or the agent, attorney at law, or attorney in fact of such owner may immediately go before the judge of the superior court, the judge of the state court, or the clerk or deputy clerk of either court, or the judge or the clerk or deputy clerk of any other court with jurisdiction over the subject matter, or a magistrate in the district where the land lies and make an affidavit under oath to the facts. Such affidavit may likewise be made before a notary public.
(d) The demand for possession notice under subsection (a) of this Code section or the three-day notice to vacate or pay under subsection (c) of this Code section shall be posted in a sealed envelope conspicuously on the door of the property and delivered via any additional method or methods agreed upon in the rental agreement.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 392,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024, app. to residential lease agreements that are entered into or renewed on or after 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 459,§ 8, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 325,§ 3, eff. 5/12/2016.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 669,§ 1.1, eff. 7/1/2006.
