# § 44-7-112. Definitions

(1) "Abandoned mobile home" means a mobile home that has been left vacant by all tenants for at least 90 days without notice to the landowner and when there is evidence of one or more of the following:
  (A) A tenant's failure to pay rent or fees for 90 days;
  (B) Removal of most or all personal belongings from such mobile home;
  (C) Cancellation of insurance for such mobile home;
  (D) Termination of utility services to such mobile home; or
  (E) A risk to public health, safety, welfare, or the environment due to such mobile home.
(2) "Derelict" means an abandoned mobile home which is in need of extensive repair and is uninhabitable and unsafe due to the presence of one or more of the following conditions:
  (A) Inadequate provisions for ventilation, light, air, or sanitation; or
  (B) Damage caused by fire, flood, hurricane, tornado, earthquake, storm, or other natural catastrophe.
(3) "Dispose" means to destroy, recycle, or repurpose for use not as living quarters.
(4) "Intact" means an abandoned mobile home which is in livable condition under applicable state law and the building and health codes of a local governing authority.
(5) "Landowner" means the owner of real property upon which a mobile home is located.
(6) "Local government agent" means a person appointed by a local governing authority who is qualified to inspect an abandoned mobile home by demonstrating that he or she is qualified to determine if the abandoned mobile home is derelict or intact.
(7) "Manufactured home" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 8-2-160.
(8) "Mobile home" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 8-2-160 and shall include a manufactured home.
(9) "Responsible party" means any person with an ownership interest in an abandoned mobile home as evidenced by the last payor of record as identified by a search of deeds or instruments of title, and shall include any holder of a recorded lien or the holder of any type of secured interest in such abandoned mobile home or a local government with a claim for unpaid taxes.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 428,§ 1, eff. 5/1/2019.
