# § 44-7-22. Termination of a residential rental agreement by a service member

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "service member" means an active duty member of the regular or reserve component of the United States armed forces, the United States Coast Guard, the Georgia National Guard, or the Georgia Air National Guard on ordered federal duty for a period of 90 days or longer.
(b) Any service member may terminate his or her residential rental or lease agreement by providing the landlord with a written notice of termination to be effective on the date stated in the notice that is at least 30 days after the landlord's receipt of the notice if any of the following criteria are met:
  (1) The service member is required, pursuant to a permanent change of station orders, to move 35 miles or more from the location of the rental premises;
  (2) The service member is released from active duty or state active duty after having leased the rental premises while on active duty status and the rental premises is 35 miles or more from the service member's home of record prior to entering active duty;
  (3) After entering into a rental agreement, the service member receives military orders requiring him or her to move into government quarters;
  (4) After entering into a rental agreement, the service member becomes eligible to live in government quarters and the failure to move into government quarters will result in a forfeiture of the service member's basic allowance for housing;
  (5) The service member receives temporary duty orders, temporary change of station orders, or state active duty orders to an area 35 miles or more from the location of the rental premises, provided such orders are for a period exceeding 60 days; or
  (6) The service member has leased the property but prior to taking possession of the rental premises receives a change of orders to an area that is 35 miles or more from the location of the rental premises.
(c) The notice to the landlord pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall be accompanied by either a copy of the official military orders or a written verification signed by the service member's commanding officer.
(d) In the event a service member dies during active duty, an adult member of his or her immediate family may terminate the service member's residential rental or lease agreement by providing the landlord with a written notice of termination to be effective on the date stated in the notice that is at least 30 days after the landlord's receipt of the notice. The notice to the landlord must be accompanied by either a copy of the official military orders showing the service member was on active duty or a written verification signed by the service member's commanding officer and a copy of the service member's death certificate.
(e) Upon termination of a rental agreement under this Code section, the service member is liable for the rent due under the rental agreement prorated to the effective date of the termination payable at such time as would have otherwise been required by the terms of the rental agreement. The service member is not liable for any other rent or damages due to the early termination of the tenancy as provided for in this Code section. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, if a service member terminates the rental agreement pursuant to this Code section 14 or more days prior to occupancy, no damages or penalties of any kind will be assessable.
(f) The provisions of this Code section shall apply to all residential rental or lease agreements entered into on or after July 1, 2005, and to any renewals, modifications, or extensions of such agreements in effect on such date. The provisions of this Code section may not be waived or modified by the agreement of the parties under any circumstances.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 44, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 48,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2005.
