# § 44-7-23. Termination of residential lease after issuance of civil or criminal family violence order or civil or criminal stalking order; notice; occupancy, waiver or modification prohibited

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Civil family violence order" means:
    (A) Any protective order issued pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter 13 of Title 19, provided that the respondent was present or had notice of the hearing that resulted in the issuance of such order; or
    (B) Any ex parte temporary protective order issued pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter 13 of Title 19, provided that such order is accompanied by a police report showing a basis for such order.
  (2) "Civil stalking order" means:
    (A) Any protective order issued pursuant to Code Section 16-5-94, provided that the respondent was present or had notice of the hearing that resulted in the issuance of such order; or
    (B) Any ex parte temporary protective order issued pursuant to Code Section 16-5-94, provided that such order is accompanied by a police report showing a basis for such order.
  (3) "Criminal family violence order" means:
    (A) Any order of pretrial release issued as a result of an arrest for an act of family violence; or
    (B) Any order for probation issued as a result of a conviction or plea of guilty, nolo contendere, or first offender to an act of family violence.
  (4) "Criminal stalking order" means:
    (A) Any order of pretrial release issued as a result of an arrest for an act of stalking under Article 7 of Chapter 5 of Title 16; or
    (B) Any order for probation issued as a result of a conviction or plea of guilty, nolo contendere, or first offender to an act of stalking under Article 7 of Chapter 5 of Title 16.
(b) A tenant may terminate his or her residential rental or lease agreement for real estate effective 30 days after providing the landlord with a written notice of termination when a civil family violence order, civil stalking order, criminal family violence order, or criminal stalking order has been issued:
  (1) Protecting such tenant or his or her minor child; or
  (2) Protecting such tenant when he or she is a joint tenant, or his or her minor child, even when such protected tenant had no obligation to pay rent to the landlord.
(c) The notice to the landlord pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall be accompanied by a copy of the applicable civil family violence order, civil stalking order, criminal family violence order, or criminal stalking order and a copy of the police report if such order was an ex parte temporary protective order.
(d) Upon termination of a residential rental or lease agreement under this Code section, the tenant may occupy the real estate until the termination is effective. Such tenant shall be liable for the rent due under such agreement prorated to the effective date of the termination, payable at such time as would have otherwise been required by the terms of such agreement, and for any delinquent or unpaid rent or other sums owed to the landlord prior to the termination of such agreement. The tenant shall not be liable for any other fees, rent, or damages due to the early termination of the tenancy as provided for in this Code section. Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, if a tenant terminates a residential rental or lease agreement pursuant to this Code section 14 or more days prior to occupancy, no damages or penalties of any kind will be assessable.
(e) This Code section shall not be waived or modified by the agreement of the parties under any circumstances.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 236,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 482,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2018.
See 2021 Ga. Laws 236, § 2.
