# § 45-9-4. Purchase of insurance or indemnity contracts; self-insurance program; Hazardous Materials Liability Reserve Fund; insurer insolvency; Liability coverage to nonprofit agencies and employees contracting with state agencies

(a) When the commissioner of administrative services determines that an adequate number of agencies, boards, bureaus, commissions, departments, or authorities of this state have requested the commissioner to do so, the commissioner shall have the authority to purchase policies of liability insurance, reinsurance, or contracts of indemnity insuring or indemnifying the officers, officials, or employees of such agencies, boards, bureaus, commissions, departments, or authorities against personal liability for damages arising out of the performance of their duties or in any way connected therewith, under a master policy or on a blanket coverage basis with or without deductibles or excess coverage. The commissioner may provide for endorsements for contractual liability and, where necessary or convenient to the public functions of the state, the commissioner may also provide for additional insureds. In such event, the commissioner may alternatively retain all moneys paid to the Department of Administrative Services as premiums on such policies of liability insurance or contracts of indemnity, all moneys received as interest, and all moneys received from other sources to set up and maintain a reserve fund for the payment of such liability under, and the expenses necessary to administer properly, a self-insurance program. If the commissioner decides to institute a self-insurance program, the commissioner shall establish and maintain a reserve fund for the payment of liabilities arising out of claims against officers, officials, and employees of the state and for any additional insureds. The commissioner shall also charge to state entities such premiums, deductibles, and other payments taking into account any direct appropriations as shall be necessary to maintain the soundness of the insurance or self-insurance programs established under this Code section. The commissioner is further authorized to establish incentive programs, including differential premium rates based on participation in loss control programs established by the department, increased or decreased deductibles based on participation in loss control programs established by the department, and the imposition of fines and penalties. If any premiums, deductibles, fines, or penalties are unpaid, the department is authorized to deduct any unpaid amounts from the nonpaying agency's or authority's continuation budget subject to the approval of the Office of Planning and Budget and deposit those funds into the liability trust fund provided for in this Code section. Any amounts held by the commissioner which are available for investment shall be paid over to the Office of the State Treasurer. The state treasurer shall deposit such funds in a trust account for credit only to the self-insurance program. The state treasurer shall invest these funds subject to the limitations of Code Section 50-5A-7 and Chapter 17 of Title 50. All income derived from such investments shall accrue to the self-insurance program. When moneys are paid over to the Office of the State Treasurer, as provided in this subsection, the commissioner shall submit an estimate of the date such funds shall no longer be available for investment. When the commissioner wishes to withdraw funds from the trust account provided for in this Code section, he or she shall submit a request for such withdrawal, in writing, to the state treasurer.
(b) On April 19, 1994, the commissioner of administrative services shall transfer all funds from the Hazardous Materials Liability Reserve Fund into the State Tort Claims Trust Fund established pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 21 of Title 50.
(c) If the insurer of any liability policy purchased for the benefit of the officers and employees of the state or state authorities shall become or has become insolvent, be placed into receivership, be subject to any other delinquency or bankruptcy proceeding, cancel its policies, or take or have taken against it like actions, the commissioner of administrative services may protect such employees against loss by such means as he may determine, including without limitation undertaking to cover, insure, or self-insure the corresponding liabilities and expenses, including without limitation claims, contingent claims, and incurred but unreported claims. However, the commissioner shall incur no obligation beyond the funds then available for commitment to the obligation. For these purposes the commissioner may proceed against such insurer, its receiver, or other representative and any other appropriate person by means of the state's own claim or by assignment, subrogation, or otherwise.
(d) The commissioner of administrative services is authorized in his discretion either to purchase commercial insurance coverage or to self-insure under an existing self-insurance trust fund all foster parents and foster children participating in programs sponsored by the Department of Human Services or in the care and custody of the Department of Human Services upon a request from the commissioner of human services. The commissioner of administrative services will establish appropriate premiums and limits applicable to such requested insurance coverage. The Department of Human Services is authorized to pay the premiums for such insurance from available appropriated funds or other available sources of funds.
(e) If requested by the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission, the commissioner of administrative services is authorized, at the commissioner's discretion, to establish a consolidated insurance program to furnish general liability insurance, workers' compensation insurance, builders' risk insurance, or general liability and workers' compensation and builders' risk insurance for all contractors on a construction project (wrap up). The premium for such insurance shall be paid from funds appropriated by the General Assembly to construct the project, and, at the completion of a project, any savings attributable to the consolidated insurance program less administrative costs shall be returned by the Department of Administrative Services to the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission.
(f) The commissioner of administrative services is authorized in his or her discretion either to purchase commercial insurance coverage or to self-insure under an existing self-insurance trust fund all attention and contract homeparents and those youth participating in programs sponsored by the Department of Juvenile Justice or in the care and custody of the Department of Juvenile Justice upon a request from the commissioner of juvenile justice. The commissioner of administrative services shall establish appropriate premiums and limits applicable to such requested insurance coverage. The Department of Juvenile Justice is authorized to pay the premiums for such insurance from available appropriated funds or other available sources of funds.
(g) The policy of insurance provided for in this Code section may also provide liability coverage to nonprofit agencies and their employees, which agencies have contracted with the Department of Juvenile Justice, the Department of Transportation, the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities, or the Department of Human Services to furnish certain services; provided, however, that such liability coverage shall be limited to damages arising out of the authorized use of a state-owned vehicle or a vehicle funded pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 49-2-13.1 by an employee of such nonprofit agency during the course of such person's employment with such nonprofit agency and the cost of such insurance furnished to any such nonprofit agency and its employees shall be allocated to and paid by such agency before any coverage shall be effective. For the purpose of this Code section, "nonprofit agency" means any nonprofit or charitable organization, association, corporation, partnership, or other entity registered pursuant to Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 45, eff. 4/29/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 418,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 450,§ 2, eff. 5/6/2008.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 450,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2008.
