# § 45-9-84.2. Georgia State Indemnification Fund - Authorization for appropriation of moneys to the fund; moneys from other sources

(a) The General Assembly is authorized to appropriate funds to be placed in the Georgia State Indemnification Fund for the purpose of providing for indemnification with respect to:
  (1) The death or disability of any law enforcement officer, firefighter, or prison guard who is or has been killed or permanently disabled in the line of duty subsequent to January 1, 1973;
  (2) The death or disability of any emergency medical technician who is killed or permanently disabled or has been killed or permanently disabled in the line of duty subsequent to January 1, 1977;
  (3) The death or disability of any emergency management rescue specialist who is killed or permanently disabled on or after January 1, 1991; and
  (4) The death or disability of any state highway employee who is or has been killed or permanently disabled in the line of duty subsequent to January 1, 1990.
(b) Funds appropriated to the Georgia State Indemnification Fund shall also be used for the purpose of defraying the expenses and costs incurred by the department in the administration of this part. In addition, the department is authorized to accept for deposit in the Georgia State Indemnification Fund any other funds from any other source. All funds appropriated to the Georgia State Indemnification Fund shall be presumptively concluded to have been committed to the purpose for which they have been appropriated and shall not lapse.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 335,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2023.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 536,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 787, § 4, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 952, §§ 6, 11 eff. 7/1/2002.
