# § 45-9-1. General provisions

(a) In addition to any other compensation which may be paid to an officer, official, or employee of any agency, board, bureau, commission, department, or authority of the executive, judicial, or legislative branch of government of this state, each such agency, board, bureau, commission, department, or authority is authorized, in its discretion, to purchase policies of liability insurance or contracts of indemnity or to formulate sound programs of self-insurance utilizing funds available to such agency, board, bureau, commission, department, or authority, insuring or indemnifying such officers, officials, or employees to the extent that they are not immune from liability against personal liability for damages arising out of the performance of their duties or in any way connected therewith. Such policies of liability insurance, contracts of indemnity, or programs of self-insurance may also provide for reimbursement to an officer, official, or employee of any agency, board, bureau, commission, department, or authority of this state for reasonable legal fees and other expenses incurred in the successful defense of any criminal proceeding, including, but not limited to, any criminal cause of action, suit, investigation, subpoena, warrant, request for documentation or property, or threat of such action whether formal or informal where such action arises out of the performance of his or her official duties. In addition, in the case of an officer, official, or employee who is required to maintain a professional license, such reimbursement may also be provided for legal fees and other expenses so incurred in the successful defense of a charge arising out of the performance of his or her official duties in proceedings before a professional licensing board, disciplinary board or commission, or other similar body. Legal fees and other expenses shall be subject to adjustment by and the approval of the Attorney General.
(b) Such agencies, boards, bureaus, commissions, departments, or authorities may expend federal and state or other available funds for such purposes. The amount of such insurance or indemnity shall also be in the discretion of such agency, board, bureau, commission, department, or authority.
(c) For the purpose of this article, the term "agency" shall specifically include, but shall not be limited to, public retirement systems of state-wide application established by the laws of this state, but shall not include counties or municipalities; provided, however, that the employees of community service boards, county departments of health, and county departments of family and children services as well as the members of the boards of said departments shall be considered to be state employees or officials for the purpose of this article. In order to facilitate the administration of liability coverage or other insurance coverages provided the community service boards, the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities shall designate a central office which shall be responsible for obtaining, submitting, and collecting all underwriting information and insurance premiums requested and assessed by the Department of Administrative Services. In order to facilitate the administration of liability coverage or other insurance coverages provided county departments of family and children services, the Department of Human Services shall designate a central office which shall be responsible for obtaining, submitting, and collecting all underwriting information and insurance premiums requested and assessed by the Department of Administrative Services. In order to facilitate the administration of liability coverage or other insurance coverages provided county departments of health, the Department of Public Health shall designate a central office which shall be responsible for obtaining, submitting, and collecting all underwriting information and insurance premiums requested and assessed by the Department of Administrative Services.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 85, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§; 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§; 1-49, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 444,§; 1, eff. 5/6/2008.
