# § 45-9-110. Authorization for consolidation; billing procedure; reserve fund; investment of funds; contracting for services; unemployment compensation benefits to certain county employees

(a) The commissioner of administrative services shall have the authority to consolidate the processing of and response to unemployment compensation claims being performed on July 1, 1985, by each individual agency, department, board, bureau, commission, and authority of the state along with the payment to the Department of Labor of this state of all moneys due and owing as a result of paid unemployment compensation claims and shall bill each department, agency, board, bureau, commission, or authority of the state for claims paid and for the reasonable cost of administering the program.
(b) The commissioner may retain all moneys paid to the Department of Administrative Services in response to such billings, all moneys received as interest, and all moneys received from other sources to set up and maintain a reserve fund for the purpose of making payments to the Department of Labor of this state and defraying the expenses necessary to administer the program. The commissioner shall invest any such moneys in the same manner as other moneys in his possession.
(c) The commissioner is authorized, in his discretion, to contract for any or all of the services necessary to carry out the functions enumerated in this article.
(d) The commissioner of administrative services shall have the authority to provide unemployment compensation benefits insurance to all of the county departments of health, county departments of family and children services, and community service boards. The commissioner of public health shall establish a procedure to provide the Department of Administrative Services all of the underwriting information required, including but not limited to payroll data each quarter for the service centers, and shall collect the unemployment premium from county departments of health and remit the premium to the Department of Administrative Services. The commissioner of human services shall establish a procedure to provide the Department of Administrative Services all of the underwriting information required, including but not limited to payroll data each quarter for the service centers, and shall collect the unemployment premium from county departments of family and children services and remit the premium to the Department of Administrative Services. The commissioner of behavioral health and developmental disabilities shall establish a procedure to provide the Department of Administrative Services all of the underwriting information required, including but not limited to payroll data each quarter for the service centers, and shall collect the unemployment premium from community service boards and remit the premium to the Department of Administrative Services. All of the county departments of health, county departments of family and children services, and community service boards shall participate in such unemployment compensation benefit insurance program.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-5, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-50, eff. 7/1/2009.
