# § 19-13-17. Administrative fine

As an alternative to criminal or other civil enforcement, the commissioner or his or her designee, in order to enforce this article or any orders, rules, or regulations promulgated pursuant to this article, may issue an administrative fine not to exceed $1,000.00 for each violation, whenever that commissioner or his or her designee, after a hearing, determines that any person, firm, or corporation has violated any provision of this article or any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant to this article. The hearing and any administrative review thereof shall be conducted in accordance with the procedures for contested cases under Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Any person, firm, or corporation that has exhausted all administrative remedies available and that is aggrieved or adversely affected by a final order or action of the commissioner or his or her designee shall have the right of judicial review in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50. All fines collected or recovered by the commissioner under this Code section shall be remitted to the Office of the State Treasurer to the credit of the general fund of this state. The commissioner or his or her designee may file in the superior court (1) wherein the person under order resides; (2) if such person is a corporation, in the county wherein the corporation maintains its principal place of business; or (3) in the county wherein the violation occurred, a certified copy of a final order of the commissioner or his or her designee, whether unappealed from or affirmed upon appeal, whereupon the court shall render judgment in accordance with the judgment and notify the parties. The judgment shall have the same effect and proceedings in relation thereto shall thereafter be the same as though the judgment had been rendered in an action duly heard and determined by the court. The penalty prescribed in this Code section shall be concurrent, alternative, and cumulative with any and all other civil, criminal, or alternative rights, remedies, forfeitures, or penalties provided, allowed, or available to the commissioner or his or her designee with respect to any violation of this article or any order, rule, or regulation promulgated pursuant to this article.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
