# § 19-13-22. Eligibility for licensing and funding; application; receiving and referral functions; shelters and programs; admission procedures; board of shelter

(a) In order to be approved and funded under this article, each shelter shall:
  (1) Provide a facility which will serve as a shelter to receive or house persons who are family violence victims;
  (2) Receive the periodic written endorsement of local law enforcement agencies;
  (3) Receive a minimum of 25 percent of its funding from other sources. Contributions in kind, whether materials, commodities, transportation, office space, other types of facilities, or personal services, may be evaluated and counted as part of the required local funding; and
  (4) Meet the minimum standards of the council for approving family violence shelters; provided, however, that facilities not receiving state funds shall not be required to be approved.
(b) The council shall provide procedures whereby local organizations may apply for approval and funding. Any local agency or organization may apply to participate.
(c) Each approved family violence shelter shall be designated to serve as a temporary receiving facility for the admission of persons subject to family violence. Each shelter shall refer such persons and their spouses to any public or private facility, service, or program providing treatment or rehabilitation services, including, but not limited to, the prevention of such violence and the care, treatment, and rehabilitation of persons engaged in or subject to family violence.
(d) Family violence shelters and family violence programs may be established throughout the state as private, local, state, or federal funds are available. Any county or municipality in this state is authorized to make grants of county or municipal funds, respectively, to any family violence center approved as such in accordance with the minimum standards of the council.
(e) The family violence shelters shall establish procedures pursuant to which persons subject to family violence may seek admission to these shelters on a voluntary basis.
(f) Each family violence shelter shall have a board composed of at least three citizens, one of whom shall be a member of a local, municipal, or county law enforcement agency.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 132,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2015.
