# § 50-16-32. Creation, membership, and organization of State Properties Commission; transfer of assets, obligations, responsibilities, funds, personnel, equipment, and facilities from the Department of Administrative Services

(a) There is created within the executive branch of state government a public body which shall be known as the State Properties Commission and which shall consist of seven members and be composed of the Governor; the Secretary of State; one citizen appointed by the Governor for terms ending on April 1 in each odd-numbered year; the state treasurer; the state accounting officer; one citizen appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives for terms ending on April 1 in each odd-numbered year; and one citizen appointed by the Lieutenant Governor for terms ending on April 1 in each odd-numbered year. The term of office of the appointed members of the commission is continued until their successors are duly appointed and qualified. The Lieutenant Governor may serve as an appointed citizen member.
(b) The Governor shall be the chairperson of the commission, the state accounting officer shall be its vice chairperson, and the Secretary of State shall be its secretary. Four members of the commission shall constitute a quorum. No vacancy on the commission shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise the powers and perform the duties of the commission. With the sole exception of acquisitions of real property, which acquisitions shall require four affirmative votes of the membership of the commission present and voting at any meeting, the business, powers, and duties of the commission may be transacted, exercised, and performed by a majority vote of the commission members present and voting at a meeting when more than a quorum is present and voting or by a majority vote of a quorum when only a quorum is present and voting at a meeting. An abstention in voting shall be considered as that member not being present and not voting in the matter on which the vote is taken. No person may be appointed, elected, or serve on the commission who is a member of the legislative or judicial branch of government. In the event any ex officio member is determined to be in either the legislative or judicial branch of government, the General Assembly declares that it would have passed this article without such ex officio position on the commission and would have reduced the quorum and vote required of the commission on all actions accordingly.
(c) Meetings shall be held on the call of the chairperson, vice chairperson, or two commission members whenever necessary to the performance of the duties of the commission. Minutes or transcripts shall be kept of all meetings of the commission and in the minutes or transcripts there shall be kept a record of the vote of each commission member on all questions, acquisitions, transactions, and all other matters coming before the commission. The secretary shall give or cause to be given to each commission member, not less than three days prior to the meeting, written notice of the date, time, and place of each meeting of the commission.
(d) The commission shall adopt a seal for its use and may adopt bylaws for its internal government and procedures.
(e) Members of the commission who are also state officials shall receive only their traveling and other actual expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties as commission members. Citizen members shall receive the same expense allowance per day as that received by a member of the General Assembly for each day any such member of the commission is in attendance at a meeting or carrying out official duties of the commission inside or outside the state, plus reimbursement for actual transportation costs while traveling by public carrier or the legal mileage rate for the use of a personal automobile inside or outside the state while attending meetings or carrying out their official duties as members of the commission.
(f) The commission shall receive all assets of and the commission shall be responsible for any contracts, leases, agreements, or other obligations of the Department of Administrative Services under the former provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 5 of this title, the "State Space Management Act of 1976." The commission is substituted as a party to any such contract, agreement, lease, or other obligation and the same responsibilities respecting such matters as if it had been the original party and is entitled to all prerogatives, benefits, and rights of enforcement by the commissioner of administrative services and Department of Administrative Services. Appropriations and other funds of the Department of Administrative Services encumbered, required, or held for functions transferred to the commission shall be transferred to the commission as provided for in Code Section 45-12-90, relating to disposition of appropriations for duties, purposes, and objects which have been transferred. Personnel, equipment, and facilities previously employed by the Department of Administrative Services for such transferred functions shall likewise be transferred to the commission. On April 12, 2005, all personnel positions authorized by the Department of Administrative Services in fiscal year 2006 for such functions shall be transferred to the commission, and all employees of the department whose positions are transferred by the Department of Administrative Services to the commission shall become employees of the commission in the unclassified service as defined by Code Section 45-20-6.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 140,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 21,§ 9, eff. 4/12/2005.
