# § 50-16-35. State Property Officer; employment of personnel by the commission; merit system; rights under Employees' Retirement System of Georgia

(a)
  (1) The Governor shall appoint a state property officer who shall serve as the executive director of the commission. The state property officer shall:
    (A) Advise the Governor on opportunities to achieve the goal of state-wide real property management;
    (B) Develop policies and procedures for state-wide real property management;
    (C) Maintain a state-wide real property management system that has consolidated real property, building, and lease information for state entities;
    (D) Develop and maintain a centralized repository of comprehensive space needs for all state entities including up-to-date space and resource utilization, anticipated needs, and recommended options;
    (E) With the advice and counsel of state entities, board members, and industry groups, provide state-wide policy leadership, recommending legislative, policy, and other similar changes and coordinating master planning to guide and organize capital asset management;
    (F) As needed, secure portfolio management expertise to accomplish the desired policy outcomes;
    (G) Seek the cooperation of all state entities to increase the effectiveness of the portfolio management approach; and
    (H) Provide assistance to all entities in achieving space and real property reporting requirements, in accordance with state law, in the acquisition and disposition of real property and leases, and in evaluating compliance and operational practices.
  (2) The commission is authorized to employ such other employees, on either a full-time or part-time basis, as may be necessary to discharge the duties of the commission. The executive director shall supervise and conduct the activities of the commission under the commission's direction. Unless the commission or chairperson otherwise directs, the executive director may execute and attest on behalf of the commission any instrument in furtherance of an activity authorized by the commission. Unless the commission, chairperson, or secretary otherwise instructs, the executive director may report the minutes of the commission, keep and affix its seal, attest its instruments, and keep and certify its records.
(b) The commission is authorized to promulgate a merit system of employment under which the executive director and such other employees shall be selected and promoted on the basis of merit.
(c) The executive director and all other employees of the commission are authorized to be members of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia. All rights, credits, and funds in the retirement system which are possessed by any person at the time of his employment with the commission are continued and preserved, it being the intention of the General Assembly that the person shall not lose any rights, credit, or funds to which he may be entitled prior to being employed by the commission.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 21,§ 12, eff. 4/12/2005.
