# § 50-16-44. Power of eminent domain; provisions cumulative and not to supersede other powers; form of proceedings; acquisition of public property or interest

(a) The commission, acting for and on behalf of and in the name of the state, is empowered to take or damage by condemnation and the power of eminent domain for the public purposes of the state any private property upon first paying or tendering just and adequate compensation to the owner of such private property. The power of eminent domain shall be cumulative of any other power of eminent domain provided by law. Condemnation proceedings by the commission, acting for and on behalf of and in the name of the state, shall take the form provided in Chapter 1 of Title 22 and Articles 1 and 2 of Chapter 2 of Title 22 or the form provided in Article 3 of Chapter 2 of Title 22. The power of condemnation and eminent domain to take or damage private property authorized by this Code section shall neither supersede nor abridge the powers of condemnation and eminent domain to take or damage private property given severally to the Department of Transportation and the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia.
(b) The commission, acting for and on behalf of and in the name of the state, is also authorized to acquire public property or an interest therein by condemnation and the power of eminent domain when such acquisition is approved by the State Commission on the Condemnation of Public Property as provided in Code Section 50-16-183. Condemnation proceedings by the commission shall take the form provided in Article 3 of Chapter 2 of Title 22. As used in this subsection, the term "public property" has the same meaning provided for in Code Section 50-16-180.
