# § 50-16-18. Writing off small amounts due to state

(a) It is the intent of this Code section to implement the provisions of Article III, Section VI, Paragraph VI of the Constitution of the State of Georgia which generally prohibit gratuities by devising an administrative mechanism which will ensure that any obligation due the state is not pursued when it is manifest that the account is uncollectable or when the costs of pursuing a moderate indebtedness would create a greater obligation on the treasury than the amount claimed and that there will be an established procedure to scrutinize modest debts individually and, when collection appears to be unlikely, to make a formal administrative determination to conserve public moneys which would otherwise be expended for unfruitful collection efforts.
(b)
  (1) (Repealed effective July 1, 2026.) All state agencies and departments, in order to preserve public funds, shall be authorized to develop appropriate standards that comply with the policies prescribed by the state accounting officer which will provide a mechanism to consider administratively discharging any obligation or charge in favor of such agency or department when such obligation or charge is $100.00 or any lesser amount unless the agency or department belongs to the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia or the Technical College System of Georgia in which case the obligation or charge in favor of the institution under the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia or the institution of the Technical College System of Georgia may be $3,000.00 or any lesser amount. This procedure shall not be available to such agency or department in those instances where the obligor has more than one such debt or obligation in any given fiscal year, and this provision shall be construed in favor of the state agency or department so as not to alter the unquestioned ability of such state agency or department to pursue any debt, obligation, or claim in any amount whatsoever. In those instances where a debt or obligation of $100.00 or less, or $3,000.00 or less for the institutions of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia or the Technical College System of Georgia, has been deemed to be uncollectable, the proper individual making such determination shall transmit a recapitulation of the efforts made to collect the debt together with all other appropriate information, which shall include a reasonable estimate of the cost to pursue administratively or judicially the account, together with a recommendation to the commissioner of such state agency or department. In those instances where the commissioner makes a determination that further collection efforts would be detrimental to the public's financial interest, a certificate reflecting this determination shall be executed, and this certificate shall serve as the authority to remove such uncollectable accounts from the financial records of such state agency or department. Such certificates shall be forwarded to the state accounting officer in a manner and at such times as are reflected in the standards developed by the state accounting officer and the state agency or department. This paragraph shall stand repealed and reserved effective July 1, 2026.
  (2) On and after July 1, 2026, all state agencies and departments, in order to preserve public funds, shall be authorized to develop appropriate standards that comply with the policies prescribed by the state accounting officer which will provide a mechanism to consider administratively discharging any obligation or charge in favor of such agency or department when such obligation or charge is $100.00 or any lesser amount. This procedure shall not be available to such agency or department in those instances where the obligor has more than one such debt or obligation in any given fiscal year, and this provision shall be construed in favor of the state agency or department so as not to alter the unquestioned ability of such state agency or department to pursue any debt, obligation, or claim in any amount whatsoever. In those instances where a debt or obligation of $100.00 or less has been deemed to be uncollectable, the proper individual making such determination shall transmit a recapitulation of the efforts made to collect the debt together with all other appropriate information, which shall include a reasonable estimate of the cost to pursue administratively or judicially the account, together with a recommendation to the commissioner of such state agency or department. In those instances where the commissioner makes a determination that further collection efforts would be detrimental to the public's financial interest, a certificate reflecting this determination shall be executed, and this certificate shall serve as the authority to remove such uncollectable accounts from the financial records of such state agency or department. Such certificates shall be forwarded to the state accounting officer in a manner and at such times as are reflected in the standards developed by the state accounting officer and the state agency or department.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 252,§ 2-1, eff. 5/6/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 436,§ 1-1, eff. 6/15/2016.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 234,§ 1-1, eff. 5/6/2013.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 505,§ 1-1, eff. 5/27/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 731,§ 1-2, eff. 5/14/2008.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 58, § 4, eff. 7/1/2003; exp.6/30/2006.
This section is set out twice. See also § 50-16-18, effective through 6/30/2006.
