# § 36-67A-5. Appointment of disinterested special master if governing authority unable to attain a quorum

(a) Where one or more disqualifications required by this chapter result in the inability of the governing authority of the county or municipality to attain a quorum for the purpose of making a final decision when considering a rezoning action, the governing authority immediately shall petition the superior court wherein the property which is the subject of the rezoning is located for appointment of a disinterested special master for the purpose of hearing evidence regarding the proposed rezoning action and making a recommendation to the petitioning governing authority. The court, in its order appointing the special master, shall give such directions for notice and the service thereof as well as for the time in which a hearing must be held and recommendations issued as are just and appropriate under the circumstances and as are consistent with this chapter.
(b) The disinterested special master provided for in this Code section shall be appointed by the judge or judges of the superior courts of each judicial circuit and shall discharge the duties provided for in this Code section. The special master so appointed must be a competent attorney at law, be of good standing in his profession, and have at least three years' experience in the practice of law. He shall hold office at the pleasure of the judge and shall be removable at any time with or without cause. The court, in its order appointing the special master, shall designate the person or entity responsible for compensating the special master at a rate not less than $50.00 per day nor more than $250.00 per day for the time actually devoted to the hearing and consideration of the matter.
(c) The special master shall consider any factors relevant in balancing the interest in promoting the public health, safety, morality, or general welfare against the right to the unrestricted use of property.
(d) The hearing provided for in this Code section and all records pertinent thereto shall be open and available to the public.
(e) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed as a delegation of the final decision-making powers of the governing authority to the special master and the recommendation of the special master is not a final decision as to the rezoning action. Where a special master has been appointed and has made a recommendation, the disqualification requirement of Code Section 36-67A-2 shall be waived.
