# § 36-67A-1. Definitions

(1) "Applicant" means any person who applies for a rezoning action and any attorney or other person representing or acting on behalf of a person who applies for a rezoning action.
(2) "Business entity" means any corporation, partnership, limited partnership, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, or trust.
(2.1) "Campaign contribution" means a "contribution" as defined in paragraph (7) of Code Section 21-5-3.
(3) "Financial interest" means all direct ownership interests of the total assets or capital stock of a business entity where such ownership interest is 10 percent or more.
(4) "Local government" means any county or municipality of this state.
(5) "Local government official" means any member of the governing authority of a local government or any member of a planning or zoning commission.
(6) "Member of the family" means the spouse, mother, father, brother, sister, son, or daughter of a local government official.
(6.1) "Opponent" means any person who opposes a rezoning action or any attorney or other person representing or acting on behalf of a person who opposes a rezoning action.
(6.2) "Oppose" means to appear before, discuss with, or contact, either orally or in writing, any local government or local government official and argue against a rezoning action.
(6.3) "Person" means an individual, partnership, committee, association, corporation, labor organization, or any other organization or group of persons.
(7) "Property interest" means the direct ownership of real property and includes any percentage of ownership less than total ownership.
(8) "Real property" means any tract or parcel of land and, if developed, any buildings or structures located on the land.
(9) "Rezoning action" means action by local government adopting an amendment to a zoning ordinance which has the effect of rezoning real property from one zoning classification to another.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 212,§ 24, eff. 1/9/2006.
