# § 31-8-192. Definitions

(1) "Contract" means an agreement executed in compliance with this article between a health care provider and a governmental contractor. This contract shall allow the health care provider to deliver health care services to low-income recipients as an agent of the governmental contractor. The contract must be for volunteer, uncompensated services. Payments made to a health care provider from the Indigent Care Trust Fund shall not constitute compensation under this article.
(2) "Department" means the Department of Public Health.
(3) "Disciplinary action" means any action taken by a licensing board to reprimand a medical practitioner included as a health care provider pursuant to paragraph (5) of this Code section for inappropriate or impermissible behavior.
(4) "Governmental contractor" means the department or its designee or designees.
(5) "Health care provider" or "provider" means:
  (A) An ambulatory surgical center licensed under Article 1 of Chapter 7 of this title;
  (B) A hospital or nursing home licensed under Article 1 of Chapter 7 of this title;
  (C) A physician or physician assistant licensed under Article 2 of Chapter 34 of Title 43;
  (D) An osteopathic physician or osteopathic physician assistant licensed under Article 2 of Chapter 34 of Title 43;
  (E) A chiropractic physician licensed under Chapter 9 of Title 43;
  (F) A podiatric physician licensed under Chapter 35 of Title 43;
  (F.1) A physical therapist licensed under Chapter 33 of Title 43;
  (G) A registered nurse, nurse midwife, licensed practical nurse, or advanced registered nurse practitioner licensed or registered under Chapter 26 of Title 43 or any facility which employs nurses licensed or registered under Chapter 26 of Title 43 to supply all or part of the care delivered under this article;
  (H) A midwife certified under Chapter 26 of this title;
  (I) A speech-language pathologist or audiologist licensed under Chapter 44 of Title 43;
  (J) An optometrist certified under Chapter 30 of Title 43;
  (K) A professional counselor, social worker, or marriage and family therapist licensed under Chapter 10A of Title 43;
  (L) An occupational therapist licensed under Chapter 28 of Title 43;
  (M) A psychologist licensed under Chapter 39 of Title 43;
  (N) A dietitian licensed under Chapter 11A of Title 43;
  (O) A pharmacist licensed under Chapter 4 of Title 26;
  (P) A health maintenance organization certificated under Chapter 21 of Title 33;
  (Q) A professional association, professional corporation, limited liability company, limited liability partnership, or other entity which provides or has members which provide health care services;
  (R) A safety net clinic, which includes any other medical facility the primary purpose of which is to deliver human dental or medical diagnostic services or which delivers nonsurgical human medical treatment and which may include an office maintained by a provider;
  (S) A dentist or dental hygienist licensed under Chapter 11 of Title 43; or
  (T) Any other health care professional, practitioner, provider, or facility under contract with a governmental contractor, including a student enrolled in an accredited program that prepares the student for licensure as any one of the professionals listed in subparagraphs (C) through (O) of this paragraph. The term includes any nonprofit corporation qualified as exempt from federal income taxation under Section 501(c) of the Internal Revenue Code which delivers health care services provided by licensed professionals listed in this paragraph, any federally funded community health center, and any volunteer corporation or volunteer health care provider that delivers health care services.
(6) "Low-income" means:
  (A) A person who is Medicaid eligible under the laws of this state;
  (B) A person:
    (i) Who is without health insurance; or
    (ii) Who has health insurance that does not cover the injury, illness, or condition for which treatment is sought; and whose family income does not exceed 200 percent of the federal poverty level as defined annually by the federal Office of Management and Budget;
  (C) A person:
    (i) Who is without dental insurance; or
    (ii) Who has dental insurance that does not cover the injury, illness, or condition for which treatment is sought; and whose family income does not exceed 200 percent of the federal poverty level as defined annually by the federal Office of Management and Budget; or
  (D) Any client or beneficiary of the department, the Department of Human Services, or the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities who voluntarily chooses to participate in a program offered or approved by the department, the Department of Human Services, or the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities and meets the program eligibility guidelines of the department, the Department of Human Services, or the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities whose family income does not exceed 200 percent of the federal poverty level as defined annually by the federal Office of Management and Budget.
(7) "Occasional-service volunteer" means a volunteer who provides one-time or occasional volunteer service.
(8) "Regular-service volunteer" means a volunteer engaged in specific voluntary service activities on an ongoing or continuous basis.
(9) "Restriction" means any limitation imposed by a licensing board on a medical practitioner included as a health care provider pursuant to paragraph (5) of this Code section.
(10) "Sanction" means any penalty imposed by a licensing board or other regulatory entity on a medical practitioner included as a health care provider pursuant to paragraph (5) of this Code section.
(11) "Volunteer" means any person who, of his or her own free will, and in support of or in assistance to the program of health care services provided pursuant to this article to any governmental contractor, provides goods or clerical services, computer services, or administrative support services, with or without monetary or material compensation. This term shall not include a health care provider.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 105,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-34, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 503,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 512,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 31, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 414,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
