# § 31-8-106. Information to be provided residents upon admission; list of current rates and services; bill for charges; access to nonmedical records

(a) At the time of admission, the facility must provide the resident with:
  (1) A written notice of the facility's basic daily or monthly rates;
  (2) A written statement of all facility services, including those offered on a needed basis, and related charges, including any extra charges for services not covered under medicare or Medicaid or by the facility's basic daily or monthly rate;
  (3) A statement disclosing the facility's name and business address and the name and business address of the administrator of the facility. Upon request an applicant or resident shall be furnished with a copy of the annual disclosure statement filed with the Department of Community Health; and
  (4) Notice of the right of access to the written policies and procedures of the facilities. Access to these policies and procedures shall be permitted during ordinary business hours.
(b) Upon a resident's request, the facility must provide that resident with a current list of all services and charges. Current charges must be posted in a conspicuous location.
(c) The facility must inform each resident in writing, at least 30 days in advance of the effective date, of any changes in rates or the services that these rates cover.
(d) A facility must bill for charges at least once a month unless otherwise agreed. Each bill must itemize charges for:
  (1) The daily or monthly rate; and
  (2) All extra charges.
(e) Each resident or guardian shall be permitted to inspect and receive a copy of the resident's nonmedical records kept by the facility. The facility may charge a reasonable fee for duplication, which fee shall not exceed actual cost.
