# § 31-8-52. Establishment of long-term care ombudsman program

Pursuant to the Older Americans Act of 1965 (P.L. 89-73, 79 Stat. 219), as amended, and as a condition of receiving funds under that act for various programs for older citizens of this state, the Department of Human Services has been required to establish and operate a long-term care ombudsman program. In order to receive such funds, the department has already established a position of state ombudsman within the state Office of Special Programs. The state ombudsman shall be under the direct supervision of the commissioner of human services or his or her designee and shall be given the powers and duties hereafter provided by this article. The state ombudsman shall be a person qualified by training and experience in the field of aging or long-term care, or both. The state ombudsman shall promote the well-being and quality of life of residents in long-term care facilities and encourage the development of community ombudsman activities at the local level. The state ombudsman may certify community ombudsmen and such certified ombudsmen shall have the powers and duties set forth in Code Sections 31-8-54 and 31-8-55. The state ombudsman shall require such community ombudsmen to receive appropriate training as determined and approved by the department prior to certification. Such training shall include an internship of at least seven working days in a nursing home and at least three working days in a personal care home. Upon certification, the state ombudsman shall issue an identification card which shall be presented upon request by community ombudsmen whenever needed to carry out the purposes of this article. Two years after first being certified and every two years thereafter, each such community ombudsman, in order to carry out his or her duties under this article, shall be recertified by the state ombudsman as continuing to meet the department's standards as community ombudsman.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 5-13, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
