# § 31-8-136. Action for damages

(a) Any resident or the representative or legal surrogate of the resident, if any, may bring an action in a court of competent jurisdiction to recover actual and punitive damages against a personal care home or its governing body, administrator, or employee for any violation of the rights of a resident granted under this article. Upon referral and request by the department, the Attorney General may bring such an action. Where a violation of a resident's rights has been found, the resident shall be awarded the actual damages or $1,000.00, whichever is greater, and may be awarded punitive damages.
(b) No person shall be prohibited from maintaining an action pursuant to this Code section for failure to exhaust any rights to administrative or other relief granted under this article.
(c) The right of a resident to bring an action pursuant to this Code section is in addition to any and all other rights, remedies, or causes of action the resident may have by statute or at common law.
(d) Any resident or the representative or legal surrogate of the resident, if any, may bring an action to recover damages for any action of a personal care home or its governing body, administrator, or employee that adversely affects the resident's rights, privileges, or living arrangement in retaliation for that resident or his or her representative or legal surrogate, if any, having exercised a right conferred by state or federal law or court order. Upon referral and request by the department, the Attorney General may bring such an action. In any action brought under this Code section alleging retaliation, there shall be a presumption of retaliatory conduct, rebuttable by a showing of clear and convincing evidence, if an owner, licensee, administrator, or employee attempts to discharge, transfer, or relocate a resident involuntarily within six months after that resident or his or her representative or legal surrogate, if any, files an action for relief under this Code section, exercises a right to a hearing under this article, or makes an oral or written grievance against the personal care home or its governing body, administrator, or employee to the personal care home, a state or community ombudsman, or a state government official or employee.
(e) Code Section 31-5-8 shall apply fully to any willful violation of this article.
