# § 31-8-173. Assessment, calculation, and payment of fees

(a) Each care management organization shall be assessed a quality assessment fee, in an amount to be determined by the department based on anticipated revenue estimates included in the state budget report, with respect to its gross direct premiums. The quality assessment fee shall be assessed uniformly upon all care management organizations. The aggregate quality assessment fees imposed under this article shall not exceed the maximum amount that may be assessed pursuant to 42 C.F.R. Section 433.68(f)(3)(i).
(b) The quality assessment fee shall be paid monthly by each care management organization to the department. A care management organization shall calculate and report its gross direct premiums upon a form prepared by the department and submit therewith payment of the quality assessment fee no later than the tenth day of each calendar month, or in the discretion of the department and upon agreement of the care management organization, said amount may be calculated and withheld by the department from the current month's premium payment. Unless the department withholds the fee from the premium payment, the initial quality assessment fee report shall be filed and the initial payment of the quality assessment fee shall be submitted no later than the tenth day of the first month in which premiums are paid to the care management organizations for medical assistance to recipients. Unless the department withholds the fee from the premium payment, a care management organization shall calculate and report the initial quality assessment fee using information about its gross direct premiums for the first month in which premiums are paid to the care management organizations for medical assistance to recipients.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 509,§ 2, eff. 4/19/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 90,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
