# § 31-8-32. Determination of indigency

(a) The commissioner of community health shall adopt state-wide standards to determine indigency for the purposes of this article. To the extent practicable, such standards shall be based on similar standards adopted for the purpose of determining the ability to pay of patients receiving services in state hospitals as authorized by state law, as now or hereafter enacted, governing responsibility for payment of cost of care for health care services rendered by state hospitals.
(b) Within 30 days after receiving the standards provided by the commissioner pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, the governing authority of each county, by resolution, shall designate a person, to be known as the health care advisory officer of the county, to make a determination of indigency for the residents of the county in accordance with the standards promulgated pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section. The health care advisory officer shall carry out such additional duties as may be assigned to him by the governing authority of the county. It shall be the duty of the governing authority of each county to mail a copy of such resolution to the chief administrative officer of each hospital within 15 days after its adoption. The governing authority of any county may change the person designated as the health care advisory officer, but any such change shall be accomplished by resolution of the governing authority, and a copy of the resolution making such change shall be mailed to the chief administrative officer of each hospital within 15 days after its adoption.
(c) When a nonresident patient receives health care from a hospital and when such patient claims inability to pay cost of care because of indigency, the chief administrative officer of the hospital shall notify, in writing, the health care advisory officer of the county of residence of the patient. Such notification shall request a determination of indigency of the patient. As soon as practicable after receiving such notification but not later than 30 days thereafter, the health care advisory officer of the county shall notify the chief administrative officer of the hospital of his determination. If the health care advisory officer determines that the patient is indigent, such notification shall constitute a certification of such indigency, and the expenditures for cost of care of such nonresident indigent patient shall be maintained on the records of the hospital for the purposes of Code Section 31-8-34.
(d) If the health care advisory officer of a county fails to respond to a request for a determination of indigency from a hospital providing health care for such patient within the time limitation provided by subsection (c) of this Code section, the county of residence of the patient shall be liable for the payment of cost of care of such patient. In such event, the hospital providing health care for the nonresident patient may bill the county of residence of the patient for the amount of his cost of care, and it shall be the duty of the governing authority of such county to pay the hospital the amount billed.
(e) To the end that the certifications of indigency required by subsection (c) of this Code section may be expedited, it shall be the duty of each county health care advisory officer to establish and maintain files showing the names of county residents determined to be indigent.
(f) It shall be the duty of the commissioner to devise such standard forms as may be necessary or desirable to administer this Code section uniformly. It shall be the duty of counties, health care advisory officers, and hospitals to use the forms promulgated by the commissioner pursuant to this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
