# § 31-8-174. Collection and disposition of fees; authority of department to inspect records of care management organizations; overpayment or underpayment; penalty for failure to pay fee

(a) The department shall collect the quality assessment fees imposed pursuant to Code Section 31-8-173. All revenues raised pursuant to this article shall be deposited into the segregated account. Such funds shall be dedicated and used for the sole purpose of obtaining federal financial participation for medical assistance payments to one or more providers pursuant to Article 7 of Chapter 4 of Title 49 or for purposes as authorized for expenditures from the trust fund.
(b) The department shall prepare and distribute a form upon which a care management organization shall calculate and report to the department the quality assessment fee.
(c) Each care management organization shall keep and preserve for a period of five years such books and records as may be necessary to determine the amount for which it is liable under this article. The department shall have the authority to inspect and copy the records of a care management organization for purposes of auditing the calculation of the quality assessment fee. All information obtained by the department pursuant to this article shall be confidential and shall not constitute a public record; provided, however, that information otherwise available to the public shall not become confidential solely because it has been obtained by the department.
(d) In the event that the department determines that a care management organization has underpaid or overpaid the quality assessment fee, the department shall notify the care management organization of the balance of the quality assessment fee or refund that is due. Such payment or refund shall be due within 30 days of the department's notice.
(e) Any care management organization that fails to pay the quality assessment fee pursuant to this article within the time required by this article shall pay, in addition to the outstanding quality assessment fee, a 6 percent penalty for each month or fraction thereof that the payment is overdue. If a quality assessment fee has not been received by the department by the last day of the month, the department shall withhold an amount equal to the quality assessment fee and penalty owed from any medical assistance or other payment due such care management organization under the Medicaid program. The quality assessment fee levied by this article shall constitute a debt due the state and may be collected by civil action and the filing of tax liens in addition to such methods provided for in this article. Any penalty that accrues pursuant to this subsection shall be credited to the segregated account.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 90,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
