# § 31-8-135. Hearing; transfer of resident

(a) Any resident, the representative or legal surrogate of the resident, if any, or the state or community ombudsman, who believes the resident's rights have been violated by a personal care home, its governing body, administrator, or employee, shall have the right to request a hearing from the department pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(b) No person shall be prohibited from requesting a hearing pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section for failure to exhaust any rights to other relief granted under this article.
(c)
  (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the hearing provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be conducted within 45 days of the receipt by the department of the request for a hearing. Where the state or community ombudsman has not already been involved in the matter at issue, the department may refer the request for a hearing to the state or community ombudsman for informal resolution pending the hearing. Such referral shall not extend the 45 day period in which the department shall conduct such hearing.
  (2) If a resident or a resident's legal surrogate or representative, if any, alleges that an action or failure to act by a personal care home or its governing body, administrator, or employee is in retaliation for the exercise by that resident or his or her representative or legal surrogate, if any, of a right conferred by state or federal law or court order, the hearing provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be conducted within 15 days of the receipt of the department of the request for a hearing. For such hearing, all pending requests for hearing by the resident or his or her legal surrogate or representative, if any, relating to such resident shall be consolidated.
(d) No transfer of a resident shall take place until all appeal rights are exhausted, unless:
  (1) An immediate transfer is necessary because the resident develops a physical or mental condition requiring continuous medical or nursing care; or
  (2) The resident's continuing behavior or condition directly and substantially threatens the health, safety, and welfare of the resident or any other resident.
(e) The department shall hold any hearing provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section at the personal care home upon the resident's request or as necessary due to the resident's physical condition. Where two or more residents of a personal care home allege a common complaint, the department may at the residents' request schedule a single hearing.
(f) If the department finds no violations of this article, the resident and personal care home will be so informed. If a violation has occurred:
  (1) The hearing officer shall so notify the staff within the department responsible for the licensure of personal care homes;
  (2) The department shall order the personal care home to correct such violation; and
  (3) Upon failure of the personal care home to correct such violation within a reasonable time, the department may impose appropriate civil penalties as provided for in Code Section 31-2-8.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 4-7, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-9, eff. 7/1/2009.
