# § 31-8-46. Investigation; penalties; rules and regulations

(a) If the department receives notice that a violation by a hospital of Code Section 31-8-42 is in progress, the department shall immediately order an investigation to determine whether or not there has been a violation and upon finding that a violation has occurred shall immediately order the hospital to comply with that Code section.
(b) If a hospital violates Code Section 31-8-42, the department shall assess a civil penalty of $500.00 for each such violation. Any such civil penalty shall be imposed by the department only after notice and hearing as provided in Article 1 of Chapter 5 of this title. Any person or facility subject to a civil penalty under this Code section is entitled to judicial review in accordance with Article 1 of Chapter 5 of this title. All civil penalties recovered by the department under this Code section shall be paid into the general fund of the state treasury.
(c) Any hospital held to be in violation of Code Section 31-8-42 more than three times within any 12 month period shall be subject to suspension or revocation of license by the Department of Community Health.
(d) The Department of Community Health is authorized and directed to promulgate appropriate rules and regulations for the enforcement of this article.
(e) Nothing in this article shall be construed to preempt any other law or to deny to any individual any rights or remedies which are provided by or under any other law.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 392,§ 2-27, eff. 7/1/2009.
