# § 31-8-193. Establishment of program; contracts with health care providers

(a) The department is authorized and directed to establish a program pursuant to this article to provide for health care services to low-income recipients. The department shall enter into contracts to effectuate the purposes of this article. The department shall make reasonable efforts to promote the program to ensure awareness and participation by low-income recipients. It is the intent of the General Assembly that this program be established as soon as is practicable after July 1, 2005, and that the program be implemented state wide at the earliest possible date, subject to available funding.
(b) A health care provider that executes a contract with a governmental contractor to deliver health care services on or after July 1, 2005, as an agent of the governmental contractor shall be considered a state officer or employee for purposes of Article 2 of Chapter 21 of Title 50, while acting within the scope of duties pursuant to the contract, if the contract complies with the requirements of this article and regardless of whether the individual treated is later found to be ineligible. A health care provider acting under the terms of a contract with a governmental contractor may not be named as a defendant in any action arising out of the medical care or treatment provided on or after July 1, 2005, pursuant to contracts entered into under this article. The contract must provide that:
  (1) The right of dismissal or termination of any health care provider delivering services pursuant to the contract is retained by the governmental contractor;
  (2) The governmental contractor has access to the patient records of patients provided services pursuant to this article of any health care provider delivering services pursuant to the contract;
  (3) Adverse incidents and information on treatment outcomes, as defined by the department and in accordance with the rules and regulations of the department, must be reported by any health care provider to the governmental contractor if such incidents and information pertain to a patient treated pursuant to the contract. If an incident involves a licensed professional or a licensed facility, the governmental contractor shall submit such incident reports to the appropriate department, agency, or board, which shall review each incident and determine whether it involves conduct by the licensee that is subject to disciplinary action. All patient medical records and any identifying information contained in adverse incident reports and treatment outcomes which are obtained by governmental entities pursuant to this paragraph are confidential and exempt from the provisions of Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50;
  (4) The health care provider shall provide services to patients on a walk-in and referral basis, in accordance with the terms of the contract. The provider must accept all referred patients; provided, however, that the number of patients that must be accepted may be limited under the terms of the contract;
  (5) The health care provider shall not provide services to a patient unless such patient has received and signed the notice required in Code Section 31-8-194; provided, however, in cases of emergency care, the patient's legal representative shall be required to receive and sign the notice, or if such individual is unavailable, such patient shall receive and sign the notice within 48 hours after the patient has the mental capacity to consent to treatment;
  (6) Patient care and health care services shall be provided in accordance with the terms of the contract and with rules and regulations as established by the department pursuant to this article. Experimental procedures and clinically unproven procedures shall not be provided or performed pursuant to this article. The governmental contractor may reserve the right to approve through written protocols any specialty care services and hospitalization, except emergency care as provided for in paragraph (5) of this subsection; and
  (7) The provider is subject to supervision and regular inspection by the governmental contractor.
(c) In order to enter into a contract under this Code section, a health care provider shall:
  (1) Have a current valid Georgia health professional license;
  (2) Not be under probation or suspension by the applicable licensing board or subject to other restrictions, sanctions, or disciplinary actions imposed by the applicable licensing board. The department, in its discretion, shall determine if a past restriction, sanction, or disciplinary action imposed by the applicable licensing board is of such a grave and offensive nature with respect to patient safety concerns as to warrant refusal to enter into a contract with such health care provider pursuant to this subsection;
  (3) Not be subject to intermediate sanction by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services for medicare or Medicaid violations or be subject to sanctions with regard to other federally funded health care programs; and
  (4) Submit to a credentialing process to determine acceptability of participation.
(d) The provider shall not subcontract for the provision of services under this chapter.
(e) A contract entered into pursuant to this Code section shall be effective for all services provided by the health care provider pursuant to this chapter, without regard to when the services are performed.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 31, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 503,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 414,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
