# § 31-8-301. Drug repository program established; criteria and requirements for unused over-the-counter and prescription drugs

(a) The Department of Public Health shall establish a drug repository program to accept and dispense over-the-counter and prescription drugs donated for the purpose of being dispensed to eligible patients.
(b) Drugs shall only be dispensed pursuant to the program if:
  (1) For prescription drugs, with an expiration date that does not expire before the completion of the medication by the eligible patient based on the prescribing health care professional's directions for use and, for over-the-counter drugs, with an expiration date that does not expire before use by the eligible patient based on the directions for use on the manufacturer's label; and
  (2) The drugs were donated in unopened tamper-evident packaging as defined by United States Pharmacopeia General Chapter 659, Packaging and Storage Requirements, including but not limited to unopened unit-dose and multiple-dose packaging.
(c) The following drugs shall not be donated to the program:
  (1) Controlled substances;
  (2) Drugs subject to a federal Food and Drug Administration managed risk evaluation and mitigation strategy pursuant to Section 355-1 of Title 21 of the United States Code if inventory transfer is prohibited by such strategy; or
  (3) Drugs that there is reason to believe are adulterated pursuant to Code Section 26-3-7.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 473,§ 2-3, eff. 4/23/2024.
Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 471,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
