# § 31-8-41. Definitions

(1) "Cost of care" means the cost of services rendered by a hospital for care required to be provided thereby under this article, and for services rendered by a physician in connection therewith, at the lesser of the actual charges or the reimbursement rate currently in effect for the hospital and physician under the medical assistance program for the needy under Title XIX of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C.A. Section 1396, et seq.), as amended, but shall not include any portion of such cost which is paid by the indigent patient, by the spouse or a relative of the indigent patient, by the father of the child, by insurance, or by any governmental or other public agency pursuant to any federal, state, or local program paying cost of health care for indigent patients, other than the program established by this article. The Medicaid reimbursement rate for services under this article shall not be adjusted for outlier payment. Payments actually received by a hospital or physician, when made by the patient, the patient's spouse, family member, father of the patient's child, or by insurance, the medical assistance program for the needy, any similar federal, state, or local program, or any other third-party payor other than a county, shall constitute payment to the hospital or physician, respectively, of the payment amount so received and exclude that amount from the definition of "cost of care." When a hospital renders care to a woman who is not a resident of the county in which that hospital is located and that care is required to be provided under this article but there is within the county of residence of that woman a hospital which usually and customarily provides that care, "cost of care" means the lesser of the actual charges for the care actually rendered or the Medicaid reimbursement rate currently in effect for such care, which Medicaid reimbursement rate shall be that Medicaid rate for such care in the hospital of the woman's county of residence, unless there is more than one such hospital, in which event the rate shall be the average Medicaid rate for such care in all hospitals of the woman's county of residence.
(1.1) "Department" means the Department of Community Health.
(2) "Hospital" means a hospital which is permitted to operate by the department pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter 7 of this title.
(3) "Indigency" means the inability of a patient or other person to pay the entire cost of care determined in accordance with subsection (a) of Code Section 31-8-43.
(4) "Patient" means a pregnant woman who receives services under this article.
(5) "Resident of the county" means a person who is domiciled in the county as determined pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title 19.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 4-10, eff. 7/1/2011.
