# § 31-8-300. Definitions

(1) "Controlled substance" means a drug, substance, or immediate precursor in Schedules I through V of Code Sections 16-13-25 through 16-13-29 and Schedules I through V of C.F.R. Part 1308 as of January 1, 2023.
(2) "Disposition" means destroy, dispose of, return, quarantine, or otherwise prevent from further distribution.
(3) "Eligible drug" means an over-the-counter or prescription drug, including drugs labeled specifically for investigational use and approved by the United States Food and Drug Administration as such, which may be donated to the program pursuant to Code Section 31-8-301.
(4) "Eligible patient" means an individual who is indigent, uninsured, underinsured, or enrolled in a public assistance health benefits program, in accordance with criteria established by the Department of Public Health pursuant to Code Section 31-8-304. Other individuals may be considered eligible patients if the need for donated drugs for indigent, uninsured, underinsured, and public assistance health benefits program patients is less than the supply of donated drugs.
(5) "Eligible recipient" means a pharmacy, hospital, federally qualified health center, nonprofit clinic, or other entity meeting the criteria established by the Department of Public Health pursuant to Code Section 31-8-304.
(6) "Expiration date" means the original expiration date provided by the manufacturer or repackager or the expiration date provided on the medication's packaging or prescription drug label.
(7) "Health care facility" means a:
  (A) Nursing home licensed pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter 7 of this title;
  (B) Personal care home licensed pursuant to Code Section 31-7-12;
  (C) Assisted living community licensed pursuant to Code Section 31-7-12.2;
  (D) Hospice licensed pursuant to Article 9 of Chapter 7 of this title; and
  (E) Home health agency licensed pursuant to Article 7 of Chapter 7 of this title.
(8) "Health care professional" means any of the following who provide medical, dental, or other health related diagnoses, care, or treatment:
  (A) Physicians licensed to practice medicine under Chapter 34 of Title 43;
  (B) Registered nurses and licensed practical nurses licensed under Chapter 26 of Title 43;
  (C) Physician assistants licensed under Chapter 34 of Title 43;
  (D) Dentists and dental hygienists licensed under Chapter 11 of Title 43;
  (E) Optometrists licensed under Chapter 30 of Title 43; and
  (F) Pharmacists licensed under Chapter 4 of Title 26.
(9) "Hospital" means a facility licensed pursuant to Chapter 7 of this title.
(10) "Program" means the drug repository program established pursuant to Code Section 31-8-301.
(11) "Short-dated" means within five months of a drug's expiration date.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 473,§ 2-2, eff. 4/23/2024.
Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 471,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
