# § 31-8-195. Volunteers to provide services

(a) Every governmental contractor is authorized to recruit, train, and accept the services of volunteers, including regular-service volunteers and occasional-service volunteers in support of or in assistance to the program of health care services provided pursuant to this article to provide services, including but not limited to clerical, computer, and administrative support.
(b) Prior to providing any services, a volunteer shall enter into a written agreement with the governmental contractor in a form as prescribed by the department.
(c) Each governmental contractor utilizing the services of volunteers pursuant to this Code section shall:
  (1) Take such actions as are necessary to ensure that volunteers understand their duties and responsibilities;
  (2) Take such actions as are necessary to ensure that volunteers are made aware of and follow all applicable health and safety rules, regulations, and procedures;
  (3) Take such actions as are necessary to ensure that volunteers are provided appropriate oversight and guidance in the performance of their volunteer service; and
  (4) Ensure that each volunteer enters into a written agreement with the governmental contractor in accordance with subsection (b) of this Code section.
(d) A volunteer shall be considered a state employee or officer for purposes of Article 2 of Chapter 21 of Title 50 while performing services pursuant to and in accordance with this Code section.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 414,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
