# § 33-20-33. Payment of distribution of reserved funds or surplus; requirements for initial public offering; fees, taxes, and assessments; applicability of other provisions of Title 33; regulation

(a) No reserved funds as defined in subsection (b) of this Code section or surplus of such nonprofit health care corporation as increased pursuant to the charge required in subsection (e) of Code Section 33-20-13 shall be distributed or paid to any person as a part of any plan of conversion of a nonprofit health care corporation to a for profit health care corporation.
(b) For the purposes of this Code section, "reserved funds" means those funds as described and defined in subsection (c) of Code Section 33-20-13 and any unassigned funds.
(c) A health care corporation which issues shares in connection with an initial public offering shall first offer such shares to its subscribers on similar terms as such shares are offered to the public consistent with applicable federal law and regulations.
(d) No options, warrants, or fees shall be paid to any officer, director, or trustee of a nonprofit health care corporation in connection with a conversion from a nonprofit to a for profit health care corporation or in regard to the initial public offering of a health care corporation.
(e) A health care corporation shall be required to pay any and all fees, taxes, including premium taxes, and assessments, specifically excluding assessments with respect to the Georgia Life and Health Insurance Guaranty Association, as are required of other companies which provide life and accident and sickness insurance under Georgia law.
(f) A health care corporation, including a surviving corporation, subject to this chapter shall be subject to all the provisions of this title not otherwise provided for in this chapter which are applicable to other insurers which provide life or accident and sickness insurance.
(g) Any distribution of surplus funds by a surviving corporation shall be subject to regulation by the Commissioner pursuant to the provisions of this title governing distributions by insurers which provide life or accident and sickness insurance and shall in no event cause the surplus funds of the surviving corporation to be less than that of the predecessor corporation as of the date of the conversion, unless the Commissioner finds that such distribution is in the public interest.
