# § 32-10-62. Membership; compensation; officers; bylaws; quorum; record of proceedings

(a) The members of the authority shall be ex officio the Governor, the commissioner of transportation, the director of the Office of Planning and Budget, one member to be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor and to serve during the term of office of the Lieutenant Governor and until a successor is duly appointed and qualified, and one member to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and to serve during the term of office of the Speaker of the House of Representatives and until a successor is duly appointed and qualified; and membership shall be a separate and distinct duty for which they shall receive no additional compensation. All members of the authority shall be entitled to all actual expenses necessarily incurred while in the performance of duties on behalf of the authority. The authority shall elect one of its members as chairman. It shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer, who need not necessarily be members of the authority. The authority may make such bylaws for its government as is deemed necessary but it is under no duty to do so. A majority of the members of the authority shall constitute a quorum necessary for the transaction of business, and a majority vote of those present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be sufficient to do and perform any action permitted to the authority by this article.
(b) No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to transact any and all business as stated in this Code section. Members of the authority shall be accountable as trustees. They shall cause to be kept adequate books and records of all transactions of the authority, including books of income and disbursements of every nature. The books and records shall be inspected and audited by the state auditor at least once a year.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 389, § 1-8, eff. 4/30/2001.
