# § 32-10-67. Study, financing, construction, and operation of new projects; cooperation and assistance of Department of Transportation

(a) The Governor, in his discretion or upon the recommendation of the State Transportation Board, is authorized and empowered to call a joint meeting of the authority and the board for the purpose of initiating all projects which may be considered under the authority of this article. Upon the concurrence of the Governor, a majority of the board, and the authority, the board or the authority is authorized and empowered to commence the study of any given project or projects and to provide for their construction. An appropriate resolution of such joint meeting shall provide for divisions of duties and responsibilities between the authority and the board in connection with such studies. In keeping with such resolution or resolutions, the authority and the board are authorized, in the performance of their assigned duties, to expend from any sums available such sums as may be necessary for the survey and study and completion of any project or projects; and such expenditures may include those necessary for all traffic surveys, expert studies, and all other expense reasonably necessary in establishing the feasibility of any given project and in the execution of all plans, specifications, and all other things necessary for revenue bond financing and construction, including all supervision of every kind required in its completion. If such expenditures, or any part of them, shall be undertaken by the board, the board shall keep proper records which shall reflect the amounts spent on each and every project study. Upon completion of any given project or projects financed by any given revenue bond issued, so long as there shall be funds available in the hands of the authority from the issue of revenue bonds to finance such project or projects, the board may demand the reimbursement of such expenditures; however, if not reimbursed, said expenditures shall be legitimate expenses of operation of the board. The authority, upon the completion or receipt of such studies or plans and specifications or other aids, shall proceed, if such project or projects are possible, to finance, acquire rights of way, construct, and operate such projects pursuant to its purposes, powers, and duties.
(b) Upon the concurrence of the board, the Department of Transportation shall have the right to provide maintenance and operational assistance to the authority as may be necessary to effectuate the purposes of this article, including but not limited to authorizing employees of the department to assist the authority in the collection of tolls on authority projects. The authority shall reimburse the department for such assistance.
