# § 32-10-127. Loans and other financial assistance; determination of eligible projects

(a) The bank may provide loans and other financial assistance to a government unit to pay for all or part of the eligible costs of a qualified project. The term of the loan or other financial assistance shall not exceed the useful life of the project. The bank may require the government unit to enter into a financing agreement in connection with its loan obligation or other financial assistance. The board shall determine the form and content of loan applications, financing agreements, and loan obligations including the term and rate or rates of interest on a financing agreement. The terms and conditions of a loan or other financial assistance from federal accounts shall comply with applicable federal requirements.
(b)
  (1) The board shall determine which projects are eligible projects and then select from among the eligible projects qualified projects. When determining eligibility, the board shall make every effort to balance any loans or other financial assistance among all regions of this state.
  (2) Preference for loans may be given to eligible projects in tier 1 and tier 2 counties, as defined in Code Section 48-7-40 and by the Department of Community Affairs.
  (3) Preference for grants and other financial assistance may be given to eligible projects which have local financial support.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 46,§ 6-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 393,§ 2, eff. 4/9/2008.
