# § 32-10-71. Acquisition, maintenance, and operation of tollway projects; collection of parking fees for public beaches

(a) The authority is authorized and empowered to acquire, maintain, repair, improve, and operate a tollway project whose status at the time of acquisition is a toll facility or which was operated as a toll facility at some point in its existence. For the purpose of earning sufficient revenue to make possible the maintenance, repair, and improvement of the acquired project, the authority is authorized to collect tolls on each and every project it acquires.
(b) When an existing state tollway facility has been acquired from a local government by the authority or the department, and the state tollway facility provides access to an island with public beaches that are in need of maintenance, repair, or restoration, the State Road and Tollway Authority may assist the local government in the collection of a parking fee for each vehicle entering the island. The local government is authorized to set a fee on roads, streets, and parking facilities owned by the local government for such purposes and may contract with the authority to collect the fee. The department is authorized to assist the authority in the collection of the fee. The local government shall reimburse the department and the authority for any costs associated with executing the terms of the contract.
(c) When a state highway provides access to an island with public beaches that are in need of maintenance, repair, or restoration, the Department of Transportation may, if consistent with federal law and regulations, authorize the local government to set and collect a parking fee for the purpose of providing funding for such maintenance, repair, or restoration. The department is authorized to allow the authority to collect such parking fee on the state highway system, provided that the collection point shall lie within the corporate limits of the local government setting the parking fee. The authority is authorized to contract with the local government for the collection of the fee. The local government shall reimburse the authority for any costs associated with executing the terms of the contract.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 389, § 2-1, eff. 4/30/2001.
