# § 32-10-100. Trust indenture as security for bonds

(a) In the discretion of the authority, any issue of such revenue bonds may be secured by a trust indenture by and between the authority and a corporate trustee, which may be any trust company or bank having the powers of a trust company, inside or outside of the state. Such trust indenture may pledge or assign tolls, revenues, and earnings to be received by the authority.
(b) Either the resolution providing for the issuance of revenue bonds or such trust indenture may contain provisions for protecting and enforcing the rights and remedies of the bondholder, including the right of the appointment of a receiver upon default in the payment of any principal or interest obligation and the right of any receiver or indenture trustee to enforce collection of tolls, revenues, or other charges for the use of the project or projects, necessary to pay all costs of operation, all reserves provided for, the principal and interest on all bonds in the given issue, all cost of collection, and all other costs reasonably necessary to accomplish the collection of such sums, in the event of any default by the authority.
(c) Such resolution or trust indenture may include covenants setting forth the duties of the authority in relation to the acquisition of property; the construction of the project; the custody, safeguarding, and application of all moneys; and the operation and maintenance of the project or projects; and may also provide that any project shall be constructed and paid for under the supervision of department engineers or others satisfactory to the original purchasers of the bonds issued for such project or projects. Such resolution or trust indenture may also require that the security given by contractors and by any depository of the proceeds of the bonds or revenues or other moneys be satisfactory to such purchasers and may also contain provisions concerning the conditions, if any, upon which additional revenue bonds may be issued.
(d) It shall be lawful for any bank or trust company incorporated under the laws of this state to act as such depository and to furnish such indemnifying bonds or pledge such securities as may be required by the authority. Such indenture may set forth the rights and remedies of the bondholders and of the trustee and may restrict the individual right of action of bondholders as is customary in trust indentures securing bonds and debentures of corporations.
(e) In addition to the foregoing, such trust indenture may contain such other provisions as the authority may deem reasonable and proper for the security of the bondholders. All expenses incurred in carrying out such trust indenture may be treated as a part of the cost of maintenance, operation, and repair of the project affected by such indenture.
