# § 32-10-90.1. Garvee bond provisions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "grant anticipation revenue vehicle" or "garvee bond" means any bond issued by the authority which is an eligible debt financing instrument within the scope of 23 U.S.C. Section 122 or which is otherwise to be repaid or reimbursed in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, from federal funds.
(b) With respect to garvee bonds and projects financed by garvee bonds, the provisions and limitations of this Code section shall control over any other conflicting provisions of this article, it being the intention of the General Assembly that grant anticipation revenue vehicles and projects funded thereby be fully subject to the terms expressed in this Code section.
(c) For the purpose of issuance and use of the proceeds of garvee bonds, the authority and the department shall give priority, as far as reasonably practicable in the judgment of the department, to the completion of those portions of the Developmental Highway System as set out in paragraphs (1) through (13) and paragraphs (15) and (16) of subsection (a) of Code Section 32-4-22 and such further paragraphs as may be added to such subsection from time to time, with due regard to the timely and economical completion of the portion set out in paragraph (14) thereof.
(d) Any project the cost of which is paid from the proceeds of garvee bonds shall be, pursuant to a contract or agreement between the authority and the department, planned, designed, and constructed by the Department of Transportation or a contractor contracting with the Department of Transportation.
(e) If during any state fiscal year the amount of federal reimbursement available to the State of Georgia under 23 U.S.C. Section 122 is or will be reduced below 90 percent of the amount available during Fiscal Year 2000-2001, the authority shall not thereafter issue any garvee bond.
(f) If cost effective as determined by the authority, garvee bonds shall be insured.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 389, § 1-12.1, eff. 4/30/2001.
