# § 32-10-128. Authority of qualified borrowers

(a) Qualified borrowers are authorized to obtain loans or other financial assistance from the bank through financing agreements. Qualified borrowers entering into financing agreements and issuing loan obligations to the bank may perform any acts, take any action, adopt any proceedings, and make and carry out any contracts or agreements with the bank as may be agreed to by the bank and any qualified borrower for the carrying out of the purposes contemplated by this part.
(b) In addition to the authorizations contained in this part, all other statutes or provisions permitting government units to borrow money and issue obligations, including, but not limited to Article 3 of Chapter 82 of Title 36, the "Revenue Bond Law," may be utilized by any government unit in obtaining a loan or other financial assistance from the bank to the extent determined necessary or useful by the government unit in connection with any financing agreement and the issuance, securing, or sale of loan obligations to the bank.
(c) A qualified borrower may receive, apply, pledge, assign, and grant security interests in project revenues to secure its obligations as provided in this part. A qualified borrower may fix, revise, charge, and collect fees, rates, rents, assessments, and other charges of general or special application for the operation or services of a qualified project, the system of which it is a part, and any other revenue producing facilities from which the qualified borrower derives project revenues to meet its obligations under a financing agreement or to provide for the construction and improving of a qualified project.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 393,§ 2, eff. 4/9/2008.
