# § 13-12-3. Notice to consumer prior to automatic renewal of a service contract

(a) Any seller that sells, leases, or offers to sell or lease any service to a consumer pursuant to a service contract for a specified period of 12 months or more and that automatically renews for a specified period of more than one month, unless the consumer cancels the contract, shall provide the consumer with written or electronic notification of the automatic renewal provision. Notification shall be provided to the consumer no less than 30 days or no more than 60 days before the cancellation deadline pursuant to the automatic renewal provision. Such notification shall disclose clearly and conspicuously:
  (1) That unless the consumer cancels the contract, the contract will automatically renew; and
  (2) The methods by which the consumer may obtain details of the automatic renewal provision and cancellation procedure, including contacting the seller at a specified telephone number or address, referring to the contract, or any other method.
(b) For any contract for service to a consumer that automatically renews for a specified period of more than 24 months, the seller shall, in addition to providing the notification required under subsection (a) of this Code section, obtain the following for the automatic renewal provision of such contract to be enforceable:
  (1) Written or electronic acknowledgment from the consumer of receipt of the notification required under subsection (a) of this Code section; and
  (2) An affirmative written or electronic response that the consumer does not intend to terminate the service contract.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 504,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2021.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 330,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
