# § 20-2-987. Professional Standards Commission - Executive secretary; employees' membership in state retirement systems; transfer of property and employees to commission; commission substitute for Department of Education

(a) The commission shall appoint an executive secretary who shall serve as the secretary and executive officer of the commission. Such executive secretary shall be compensated in an amount fixed by the commission. The executive secretary shall have the authority to employ such professional and clerical personnel as may be necessary to carry out the duties and responsibilities of the commission. Personnel of the Department of Education may be utilized by the commission subject to the approval of the State School Superintendent.
(b) All full-time employees of the commission shall be members of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, except for members of the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia who, without any break in service, become full-time employees of the commission. Such employees shall continue as members of the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia. All employer contributions to said retirement systems and for social security for said employees shall be paid from funds appropriated for the operation of the commission.
(c) The commission shall, on and after July 1, 1991, assume possession and control of all records, papers, equipment, supplies, and all other tangible property possessed and controlled by the Department of Education as of June 30, 1991, in its performance of functions or duties transferred to the commission under this part or under any other provisions of the 1991 Act which enacted this part. Further, all officers, employees, and agents of the Department of Education who, on June 30, 1991, are employed in the performance of a function or duty which shall be vested in the commission on July 1, 1991, by this part or any other provisions of the 1991 Act which enacted this part shall be automatically transferred to the commission. The status, position, and rights of persons so transferred shall not be affected by the transfer, in and of itself, and such persons shall retain, inter alia, all rights of rank or grade, rights to annual leave, sick pay and leave, rights under any retirement or personnel plan, and any other rights under any law or administrative policy.
(d) The commission shall succeed to all rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and administrative orders of the Department of Education which are in effect on June 30, 1991, and which relate to the functions transferred to the commission by this part or any other provisions of the 1991 Act which enacted this part. Such rules, regulations, policies, procedures, and administrative orders shall remain in effect until amended, repealed, superseded, or nullified by proper authority or as otherwise provided by law.
(e) The rights, privileges, entitlements, and duties of parties to contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions entered into before July 1, 1991, by the Department of Education and which pertain to the functions transferred to the commission by this part or any other provisions of the 1991 Act which enacted this part shall continue to exist and none of these rights, privileges, entitlements, and duties are impaired or diminished by reason of the transfer of the functions to the commission. In all such instances, the commission shall be substituted for the Department of Education and the commission shall succeed to the rights and duties under such contracts, leases, agreements, and other transactions.
