# § 20-2-109. Duties of local school superintendents; reporting

(a) The local school superintendent shall constitute the medium of communication between the State School Superintendent and subordinate local school officers. The local school superintendent shall be the executive officer of the local board of education; shall be the agent of the local board in procuring such school equipment and materials as it may order; shall ensure that the prescribed textbooks are used by students; shall verify all accounts before an application is made to the local board for an order for payment; and shall keep a record of all official acts, which, together with all the books, papers, and property appertaining to the office, shall be turned over to the successor. It shall be the local school superintendent's duty to enforce all regulations and rules of the State School Superintendent and of the local board according to the laws of the state and the rules and regulations made by the local board that are not in conflict with state laws; and to visit every school within the local school system to become familiar with the studies taught in the schools, observe what advancement is being made by the students, counsel with the faculty, and otherwise aid and assist in the advancement of public education.
(b) The local school superintendent shall report monthly to the local board of education the financial status of the local school system in accordance with Code Section 20-2-58. Each local board of education which governs a local school system that has been designated as a high-risk local school system or moderate-risk local school system by the Department of Audits and Accounts pursuant to Code Section 20-2-67 shall require the local school superintendent to complete training on financial management and financial governance of a local school system.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 389,§ 1-10, eff. 7/1/2021.
