# § 20-2-270.1. Services provided by regional educational service agency; Georgia Learning Resources System; Psychoeducational Network

(a) Each regional educational service agency shall provide the following shared services to member local school systems and state charter schools:
  (1) Identifying or conducting research related to educational improvements and in planning for the implementation of such improvements;
  (2) Developing and implementing staff development programs with an emphasis on improving student achievement and school accountability;
  (3) Developing and implementing curricula and instruction of the highest quality possible, including implementing the uniformly sequenced content standards adopted by the state board;
  (4) Developing and implementing academic assessment and evaluation programs;
  (5) Identifying and utilizing electronic technology, including computers, in an effort to improve the quality of classroom instruction as well as classroom, school, and school system management;
  (6) Developing programs, resource materials, and staff development services relating to instruction on alcohol and drug abuse; and
  (7) Assistance in the development and implementation of a state-wide mentoring program. The shared services may also include assistance designed to address documented local needs pursuant to subsection (d) of Code Section 20-2-272.
(b) The state board shall make the service areas for the Georgia Learning Resources System congruous with the service areas for the RESA's. The RESA's are designated as the fiscal agents for the agency of the Georgia Learning Resources System or a local board of education as identified by the State Board of Education through an annual contract to serve as fiscal agent for the Georgia Learning Resources System. All member local school systems and state charter schools shall be provided the services of the Georgia Learning Resources System.
(c) The Psychoeducational Network for severely emotionally disturbed students shall be continued in effect. The service areas of units of the Psychoeducational Network for severely emotionally disturbed students in place on January 1, 1995, shall be continued in effect. The fiscal agent for each service area shall be as in effect on January 1, 1995, unless changed as provided in this subsection. Upon the request of a majority of the local school superintendents of the local school systems within a service area, representatives of each of the local school systems in the respective service area shall vote in the manner and at the time prescribed by the state board to determine if one of the local school systems or the regional educational service agency serving the respective service area shall serve as the fiscal agent for the respective unit of the Psychoeducational Network for the ensuing fiscal year. In the event this vote results in a change in the fiscal agent for the respective unit, the new fiscal agent shall continue in this capacity for a minimum of three fiscal years. In the event a regional educational service agency is designated as the fiscal agent for a service area, all member local school systems shall be provided the services of the Psychoeducational Network.
(d) A regional educational service agency shall be authorized to sell or provide at reasonable costs goods to private schools located in this state.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 425,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 23, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 927, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
