# § 20-2-776. Student retention and self-administration of auto-injectable epinephrine; liability of school system

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "auto-injectable epinephrine" means a disposable drug delivery device that is easily transportable and contains a premeasured single dose of epinephrine used to treat life-threatening allergic reactions.
(b) Each local board of education shall adopt a policy authorizing a student to carry and self-administer prescription auto-injectable epinephrine. Such policy shall provide that in order to carry and self-administer prescription auto-injectable epinephrine, the student's parent or guardian shall provide:
  (1) A written statement from a physician licensed under Chapter 34 of Title 43 detailing the name of the medication, method, amount, and time schedules by which the medication is to be taken, and confirming that the student is able to self-administer auto-injectable epinephrine; and
  (2) A written statement by the parent or guardian consenting to the self-administration, providing a release for the school nurse or other designated school personnel to consult with the physician regarding any questions that may arise with regard to the medication, and releasing the school system and its employees and agents from civil liability if the self-administering student suffers an adverse reaction as a result of self-administering auto-injectable epinephrine pursuant to this Code section. The written statements specified in this subsection shall be provided at least annually and more frequently if the medication, dosage, frequency of administration, or reason for administration changes.
(c) The policy adopted pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall include provisions to protect the safety of all students from the misuse or abuse of auto-injectable epinephrine.
(d) Any student who is authorized for self-administration of epinephrine pursuant to this Code section may possess and use auto-injectable epinephrine:
  (1) While in school;
  (2) At a school sponsored activity;
  (3) While under the supervision of school personnel; or
  (4) While in before-school or after-school care on school operated property.
(e) A student may be subject to disciplinary action if he or she uses auto-injectable epinephrine in a manner other than as prescribed.
(f) A local school system and its employees and agents shall incur no liability other than for willful or wanton misconduct for any injury to a student caused by his or her use of auto-injectable epinephrine.
(g) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit a school from receiving and storing prescription auto-injectable epinephrine onsite on behalf of a student who is not able to self-administer the medication because of age or any other reason if the parent or guardian provides:
  (1) A written statement from a physician licensed under Chapter 34 of Title 43 detailing the name of the medication, method, amount, and time schedules by which the medication is to be taken; and
  (2) A written statement by the parent or guardian providing a release for the school nurse or other designated school personnel to consult with the physician regarding any questions that may arise with regard to the medication, and releasing the school system and its employees and agents from civil liability. The written statements specified in this subsection shall be provided at least annually and more frequently if the medication, dosage, frequency of administration, or reason for administration changes.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 88,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 10,§ 1, eff. 4/21/2009.
