# § 20-2-915. Coverage for retiring and retired public school and certain community college employees and dependents; subordination to federal program

(a) The contract or contracts shall provide for health insurance for retiring public school employees and their spouses and dependent children, as defined by the regulations of the board, under such terms as the board may deem appropriate. The board shall adopt regulations prescribing the conditions under which an employee or retiring employee may elect to participate in or withdraw from the health insurance plan; provided, however, that any such persons who are eligible to receive a benefit under Chapter 3 or 4 of Title 47 shall be entitled to continue health benefit coverage from active service by authorizing deductions from the retiree's retirement benefit or by paying a premium directly to the board as provided by the rules and regulations of the board. For retirees who pay directly, the participation rate shall be the same as the rate charged to other retired direct payees. Surviving spouses of direct paying retirees shall be eligible to continue coverage at the death of the retiree under the same conditions as the retiree but shall not be eligible to include additional persons in the contract after the retiree's death. The board may limit the choices of direct paying retirees to the level of coverage supported by the employer contribution authorized under this Code section.
(b) The contract or contracts shall provide for health insurance for retired former public school employees and retired former employees of a community college operated and funded by a local school system and their spouses and dependent children, as defined by the regulations of the board, under such terms as the board may deem appropriate. The former retired employees shall include individuals who retired prior to January 1, 1985, who were covered by an employer group health plan at the time of retirement and who receive benefits from one of the retirement systems operated by the state or by a local school system. The costs of employer contributions and the administration of providing such insurance may be assessed against such retired former employees or may be appropriated to the Department of Education. Such retired former employees shall pay premiums for such health insurance in an amount set by the board after consideration of the amount appropriated to the Department of Education. The board shall adopt regulations prescribing the conditions under which a retired former employee may elect to participate in or withdraw from the plan.
(c) If a retiring or retired public school employee or the beneficiary of such retiring or retired public school employee exercises eligibility under board regulations to continue coverage under the plan and the retiring or retired public school employee or the beneficiary is eligible to participate in the insurance program operated by or on behalf of the federal government under the provisions of 42 U.S.C.A. 1395, as amended, the coverage available under the public school employees' health insurance plan shall be subordinated to the coverage available under such federal program. The board is authorized to promulgate regulations to establish the premium paid by the retiring or retired public school employee or beneficiary to reflect the subordination of coverage.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 124,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2005.
