# § 20-2-211.1. Clearance certificates issued by the Professional Standards Commission relating to fingerprint and criminal background checks

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Clearance certificate" means a certificate issued by the Professional Standards Commission that verifies that an educator has completed fingerprint and criminal background check requirements as specified in this Code section and that the individual does not have a certificate that is currently revoked or suspended in Georgia or any other state; provided, however, that additional fingerprinting shall not be required for renewal of a clearance certificate or for educators who possess a professional educator certificate as of January 1, 2011. A clearance certificate shall be a renewable certificate valid for five years. Clearance certificates shall be subject to fees in accordance with subsection (e) of Code Section 20-2-200.
  (2) "Educator" means a teacher, school or school system administrator, or other education personnel who would, if not exempted pursuant to a charter under Article 31 or 31A of this chapter or an increased flexibility contract under Article 4 of this chapter, be required to hold a professional educator certificate, license, or permit issued by the Professional Standards Commission and persons who have applied for but have not yet received such a certificate, license, or permit.
  (3) "Local unit of administration" shall have the same meaning as in Code Section 20-2-242 and shall also include state chartered special schools and state charter schools.
  (4) "Professional educator certificate" means a certificate, license, or permit issued by the Professional Standards Commission that is based upon academic, technical, and professional training, experience, and competency of such personnel as provided for under Code Section 20-2-200.
(b)
  (1) On and after January 1, 2011, all educators employed by a local unit of administration shall hold a valid clearance certificate; provided, however, that an educator who possesses a professional educator certificate as of January 1, 2011, shall not be required to obtain a clearance certificate until his or her professional educator certificate is up for renewal. A local unit of administration may employ an educator who does not already hold a valid clearance certificate, provided the individual has applied for a clearance certificate, for a maximum of 20 days in order to allow for the receipt of the results of the criminal record check and issuance of the clearance certificate. The requirements of this Code section shall be in addition to professional educator certificate requirements unless such educator is employed by a school which is exempt from teacher certification requirements pursuant to a charter under Article 31 or 31A of this chapter or an increased flexibility contract under Article 4 of this chapter.
  (2) Any other Code sections to the contrary notwithstanding, educators holding a valid clearance certificate shall be subject to the code of ethics for educators as established pursuant to Code Section 20-2-984.1 and shall be subject to Code Sections 20-2-984, 20-2-984.2, 20-2-984.3, 20-2-984.4, and 20-2-984.5.
(c) A local unit of administration shall ensure that all personnel employed by such local unit of administration after January 1, 2011, shall be fingerprinted and have a criminal record check performed. The local unit of administration shall have the authority to employ such person for a maximum of 20 days in order to allow for the receipt of the results of the criminal record check. The local unit of administration shall adopt policies to provide for the subsequent criminal record checks of personnel continued in employment in the local unit of administration.
(d)
  (1) Local units of administration shall have the authority and responsibility to order criminal record checks pursuant to this Code section through the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation and shall have the authority to receive the results of such criminal record checks. Local units of administration shall also have the authority to forward the results of criminal record checks to the Professional Standards Commission as necessary regarding potential violations of the code of ethics for educators. The Professional Standards Commission shall also have the authority to order criminal record checks pursuant to this Code section through the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation and shall have the authority to receive the results of such criminal record checks.
  (2) Fingerprints shall be in such form and of such quality as shall be acceptable for submission to the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. It shall be the duty of each law enforcement agency in this state to fingerprint those persons required to be fingerprinted by this Code section.
(e) At the discretion of local units of administration, fees required for a criminal record check by the Georgia Crime Information Center or the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall be paid by the local unit of administration or by the individual seeking employment or making application to the Professional Standards Commission.
(f) The Professional Standards Commission is authorized to adopt rules and regulations necessary to carry out the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 335,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 126,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 408,§ 1B, eff. 7/1/2010.
