# § 20-2-201. Specific course requirements; in-service or continuing education; online offerings

(a) Universities and colleges having teacher preparation programs for grades pre-kindergarten through 12 shall require students in such programs to be proficient in computer and other instructional technology applications and skills including understanding desktop computers, their applications, integration with teaching and curriculum, and their utilization for individualized instruction and classroom management. There shall be a test to assess the proficiency of students enrolled in teacher preparation programs in computer and other instructional technology applications and skills.
(b) Each local unit of administration shall be required to provide all professional personnel certificated by the Professional Standards Commission 12 clock hours of in-service or continuing education in each calendar year, or meet requirements of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools. Such in-service programs shall be developed by the local unit of administration in conjunction with such agencies as regional educational service agencies, colleges and universities, and other appropriate organizations. These programs shall be designed to address identified needs determined by appropriate personnel evaluation instruments. These programs shall also focus on improving the skills of certificated personnel that directly relate to improving student achievement, as reflected in the revised certification renewal rules established by the Professional Standards Commission pursuant to paragraph (4.1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-200 regarding the impact of professional learning on student achievement. These programs shall also include in-service training programs on sexual abuse and assault awareness and prevention for professional personnel who will be providing instruction in annual age-appropriate sexual abuse and assault awareness and prevention education in kindergarten through grade nine pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-143. Records of attendance shall be maintained by local units of administration and shall be monitored by appropriate Department of Education staff.
(c) As used in this subsection, the term "online" means by electronic network or Internet. Each regional education service agency or college or university that offers in-service or continuing education for professional personnel for certification or recertification shall offer some in-service or continuing education online through the Internet or offer access to equivalent in-service or continuing education online so that a teacher or other professional employee can take the training at a location other than the location where the in-service or continuing education is conducted in person. For purposes of certification or recertification, the Professional Standards Commission shall treat in-service or continuing education conducted online as if such in-service or continuing education had been conducted in person. Local units of administration may permit professional personnel to use computers and other electronic equipment available at schools for in-service or continuing education at times before and after normal school hours when other professional duties are not scheduled for the individual.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 20, eff. 5/12/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 449,§ 2C, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 618,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 20, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 726, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 107, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
