# § 20-2-159.2. Coordination between high schools and postsecondary institutions to minimize the need for remedial coursework for students in postsecondary institutions

(1) Develop policies to ensure that students who master the content standards established pursuant to Code Section 20-2-140 will meet the requirements for purposes of admission into a postsecondary institution, such as grade point average and readiness levels in reading, writing, and mathematics, without having to take remedial coursework. Such policies shall:
  (A) Establish the benchmarks for college readiness and the method in which students can demonstrate readiness in reading, writing, and mathematics for postsecondary coursework upon completing the content standards; and
  (B) Set the conditions for ensuring college readiness;
(2) Define college-readiness standards in reading, writing, and mathematics needed for success in advanced training, certificate programs, and programs leading to an associate's or bachelor's degree;
(3) Identify one or more state-wide common assessments to determine postsecondary readiness in reading, writing, and mathematics and inform students of their performance on such assessments no later than the end of tenth grade;
(4) Develop transitional courses in reading, writing, and mathematics, with common standards, syllabus, and instruction materials for eleventh and twelfth grade students who fail to meet readiness standards, which courses shall be required by the state board to be offered by all local boards of education and which all students who are identified pursuant to paragraph (3) of this subsection as failing to meet readiness standards shall be required to take;
(5) Establish a state-wide process for determining how successful completion of transitional courses will guarantee that students will meet readiness standards; and
(6) Ensure dual credit courses reflect postsecondary coursework.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 662,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2012.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 226,§ 5, eff. 5/13/2011.
