# § 20-2-892. Contributions by employees, state, and local employers; withholding or deducting employees' contributions

(a) During any period in which an employee is covered under the health insurance plan authorized by this subpart prior to the date of his retirement, there shall be withheld from each salary payment of such employee, as his share of the costs of coverage under this plan, such portion of the premium or subscription charges under the terms of any contract or contracts issued in accordance with this subpart as may be established by the board. During any month in which the benefits are being paid by the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia to an individual so covered under this program, contributions shall be deducted from such payments in the amounts prescribed by the board with consent of the recipient.
(b) As the local employer's share, the local employer shall contribute to the health insurance fund such portion of the cost of such benefits as may be established by the Governor and the board and, in addition thereto, an amount to be established by the board to defray the cost of administration. The board shall determine whether such portion shall be determined based upon a percentage of the total outlay for the salaries of teachers employed by the local employer or determined on an amount per employee electing coverage under the plan based on the coverage elected, in accordance with the appropriation of funds. If a local employer fails to remit the employer's share as calculated by the commissioner, as provided in this Code section, it shall be the duty of the commissioner to notify the State Board of Education of such failure and it shall be the duty of the State Board of Education to, with reasonable promptness, withhold from the employer which has failed to comply sufficient state funds as calculated by the commissioner to fully satisfy the outstanding obligation of the local employer to the health insurance fund. Such withheld funds shall be promptly transmitted by the state board to the Department of Community Health.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 36, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 124,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
