# § 20-2-211. Annual contract; disqualifying acts; job descriptions

(a) All teachers, principals, other certificated professional personnel, and other personnel of a local unit of administration shall be employed and assigned by its governing board on the recommendation of its executive officer. Minimum qualifications for employment of all personnel may be prescribed by the State Board of Education unless otherwise provided by law. Employment contracts of teachers, principals, and other certificated professional personnel shall be in writing, and such contracts shall be signed in duplicate by such personnel on their own behalf and by the executive officer of the local unit of administration on behalf of its governing board.
(b) Any other provisions of this article or any other laws to the contrary notwithstanding, each local governing board shall, by not later than May 15 of the current school year, tender a new contract for the ensuing school year to each teacher and other professional employee certificated by the Professional Standards Commission on the payroll of the local unit of administration at the beginning of the current school year, except those who have resigned or who have been terminated as provided in Part 7 of Article 17 of this chapter, or shall notify in writing each such teacher or other certificated professional employee of the intention of not renewing his or her contract for the ensuing school year. Such contracts when tendered to each teacher or other professional employee shall be complete in all terms and conditions of the contract, including the amount of compensation to be paid to such teacher or other professional employee during the ensuing school year, and shall not contain blanks or leave any terms and conditions of the contract open. A letter of intent or similar document shall not constitute a contract and shall not be construed to require or otherwise legally bind the teacher or other professional employee to return to such school system. Upon request, a written explanation for failure to renew such contract shall be made available to such certificated personnel by the executive officer. When such notice of intended termination has not been given by May 15, the employment of such teacher or other certificated professional employee shall be continued for the ensuing school year unless the teacher or certificated professional employee elects not to accept such employment by notifying the local governing board or executive officer in writing not later than June 1.
(c) Any other provisions of this article or any other laws to the contrary notwithstanding, no local governing board shall employ any person as a teacher who has been discharged from the armed forces of the United States with a dishonorable discharge as a result of desertion or any person who has fled or removed himself from the United States for the purpose of avoiding or evading military service in the armed forces of the United States, excluding those who have been fully pardoned.
(d) Each local school system shall have a job description for each certificated professional personnel classification, shall have policies and procedures relative to the recruitment and selection of such personnel, and shall adhere to such recruitment and selection policies and procedures. Such policies and procedures shall assure nondiscrimination on the basis of sex, race, religion, or national origin. Such policies and procedures shall also include the announcement in writing of the availability of all certificated positions within the local school system and the submission of such available positions to a state-wide online job data base maintained by the state.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 336,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 335,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 227,§ 6, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 408,§ 1A, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 349,§ 1, eff. 3/16/2010.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 204, § 1, eff. 5/31/2003.
