# § 20-2-319.2. School interscholastic extracurricular athletic policy providing for the use of a single, comprehensive, preparticipation physical examination form

(a) The State Board of Education shall develop, with input from appropriate experts and organizations, a school interscholastic extracurricular athletic policy that provides for the use of a single, comprehensive, preparticipation physical examination form.
(b) As used in this Code section, the term "participation" means participation in sports try-outs and practices and actual interscholastic extracurricular sports competition.
(c) When a school or school district has a policy which requires students who participate in extracurricular sports to have a physical examination prior to participation, the person conducting the physical examination shall use the State Board of Education approved form pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section, provided that the form may at the option of the local board include additional elements.
(d) The State Board of Education shall appoint an appropriate committee to make recommendations concerning the comprehensive, preparticipation physical examination form to be used for physical examinations referred to in this Code section. The committee may consult or work with appropriate voluntary organizations and shall give due consideration to the recommendations of the American Academy of Pediatrics on this subject. The final form shall be adopted and may from time to time be modified by rule by the State Board of Education.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 417,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
