# § 20-2-986. Professional Standards Commission - Reimbursement; retention of income and benefit rights by members employed by state agency or political subdivision; reimbursement for employee's performance of duties as commission member

Members of the commission shall receive no compensation for their services but shall, upon approval by the chairman, be reimbursed for their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of official commission business as provided by Code Section 45-7-20. No member of the commission, with the exception of members of the executive committee of the commission, shall be reimbursed from any public funds for such expenses for more than 30 days during each calendar year, except that there shall be no limitation on the number of meeting days for one year after July 1, 1991. A member of the commission who is an employee of an agency of the state, or any of its political subdivisions, including school systems, shall be permitted to attend commission meetings and perform other commission duties without loss of income or other benefits. An agency of Georgia, or any of its political subdivisions, including school systems, which employs a member of the commission and employs a person to replace such member during the member's performance of commission duties or incurs other additional expenses as a result of such performance shall be reimbursed for the actual amount of any costs so incurred.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 458, § 7, eff. 7/1/2002.
