# § 20-2-261. Common minimum facility requirements

(a) The State Board of Education shall establish common minimum facility requirements which each public school facility must meet in order to be certified for use in any component of the educational or recreational program of that school. Such minimum requirements shall include those provisions of law or state board policy on matters that relate to fire and physical safety; sanitation and health, including temperature and ventilation; minimum space, size, and configuration for the various components of the instructional program; and construction stability, quality, and suitability for intended uses. Such minimum requirements shall not prohibit wood construction that is otherwise in compliance with state minimum standard codes as they existed on January 1, 2014. As used in this subsection, the term "state minimum standard codes" shall have the same meaning as in paragraph (9) of Code Section 8-2-20.
(b) The State Board of Education shall adopt policies and procedures to ensure that each school facility meets minimum standards as determined by state board policy.
(c) A proposed plan of action which includes a list and description of each deficiency and time limits within which such deficiencies are to be corrected must be submitted to the State Board of Education for review and approval. Further, the state board shall have the authority, in accordance with Code Section 20-2-243, to withhold all or part of the state funds in support of this part from any local unit of administration refusing or failing to implement the plan of action for deficiency remediation approved by the state board.
(d) A local board of education shall be exempt from county and municipal assessments and fees for county and municipal building permits and inspections and exempt from county and municipal impact fees.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 639,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
