# § 20-2-144. Mandatory instruction concerning alcohol, tobacco, vapor products, and other drug use

(a) Each local board of education shall prescribe mandatory instruction concerning alcohol, tobacco, vapor products, and other drug use in every year in every grade from kindergarten through grade 12 as shall be determined by the State Board of Education. Such course of study shall implement the minimum course of study provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section or its equivalent, as approved by the State Board of Education. Each local board of education may supplement the exact approach of content areas of such minimum course of study with such curriculum standards as it may deem appropriate. Such standards shall include instruction which discourages the use of alcohol, tobacco, vapor products, and controlled substances and communicates that the use of illicit drugs and improper use of legally obtained drugs is wrong and dangerous.
(b) The State Board of Education shall prescribe a minimum course of study of alcohol, tobacco, vapor products, and other drug use which may be included as a part of a course of study in comprehensive health education where offered and where appropriate. Instruction also shall be integrated into other curriculum requirements as determined by the State Board of Education. The course shall be age appropriate, shall be sequential in method of study, and shall include the following elements where appropriate in the instruction:
  (1) Detailed, factual information regarding physiological, psychological, sociological, and legal aspects of substance abuse;
  (2) Detailed information concerning the availability of help and assistance for persons with chemical dependency problems;
  (3) Skills needed to evaluate advertisements for, and media portrayals of, alcohol, tobacco, vapor products, and controlled substances; and
  (4) Detailed instruction on the need for, and role of, lawful authority and law-abiding behavior, which instruction may include interacting and working with members of the legal and justice professions.
(c) A manual setting out the details of such course of study shall be prepared by or approved by the State School Superintendent in cooperation with the Department of Public Health, the State Board of Education, the Department of Public Safety, and such expert advisers as they may choose.
(d) The minimum course of study to be prescribed by the State Board of Education pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall be ready for implementation not later than July 1, 2021. Each local board shall implement either such minimum course of study or its equivalent not later than December 31, 2021. Any local board of education which fails to comply with this subsection shall not be eligible to receive any state funding under this article until such minimum course of study or its equivalent has been implemented.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 30,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
