# § 20-2-19. Receipt and review of asbestos management plans by State Board of Education; disapproval of plans; funding; regulation; accreditation; effect on other powers of board

(a) The Governor may designate the State Board of Education to receive and review asbestos management plans of local boards of education and of owners of private, nonprofit elementary and secondary school buildings, as provided in the federal Asbestos Hazard Emergency Response Act of 1986, 100 Stat. 2970, P.L. 99-519, amending P.L. 99-469, hereinafter referred to as "AHERA." Any such designation by the Governor prior to March 31, 1988, is ratified and affirmed and shall have effect from the date thereof.
(b) The State Board of Education may receive and disapprove such plans upon the grounds stated in and as provided in AHERA.
(c) The State Board of Education may apply for, accept, and disburse federal funds to local boards of education and to owners of private, nonprofit elementary and secondary school buildings for activities involving the preparation and implementation of asbestos management plans. The State Board of Education may apply for, accept, and utilize federal funds for its activities under this Code section, including the training and accreditation of staff.
(d) The State Board of Education shall prescribe such policies, rules, regulations, and standards as it deems appropriate to carry out purposes of AHERA.
(e) The State Board of Education shall have the authority to adopt an accreditation program and accredit persons who inspect and prepare management plans and conduct response activities for local units of administration, as defined by AHERA.
(f) The powers bestowed by this Code section shall be cumulative of other powers of the State Board of Education and shall not diminish them in any way. This Code section shall not be construed to diminish the powers of any other state agency or instrumentality.
