# § 20-2-2001. Definitions

(1) "Administrator" means any person who administers a group self-insurance fund other than the interlocal risk management agency.
(2) "Board of education" or "board" means a public board of education of any county or of any independent school system of this state.
(3) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Insurance.
(4) "General liability" means any liability for bodily injury, death, or damage to property owned by others or any other liability, except motor vehicle liability, to which a board of education or school system may be subject either directly or by reason of liability arising out of an act, error, or omission of its employee, agent, or officer in the course and scope of employment.
(5) "Group self-insurance fund" or "fund" means a pool of public moneys established by an interlocal risk management agency from contributions of its members in order to pool the risks of general liability, motor vehicle liability, property damage, or any combination of such risks.
(6) "Interlocal risk management agency" or "agency" means an association formed by boards of education by the execution of an intergovernmental contract for the development and administration of an interlocal risk management program and one or more group self-insurance funds.
(7) "Interlocal risk management program" means a plan and activities carried out under such plan by an interlocal risk management agency to reduce risk of loss on account of general liability, motor vehicle liability, or property damage, including safety engineering and other loss prevention and control techniques, and to administer one or more group self-insurance funds, including the processing and defense of claims brought against members of the agency.
(8) "Motor vehicle liability" means liability to which a board of education or school system may be subject either directly or by reason of liability arising out of the use of a motor vehicle by its employee, agent, or officer in the course and scope of employment. Such term shall also include loss on account of property damage to motor vehicles.
(9) "Property damage" means loss to which a board of education or school system may be subject by reason of physical damage or destruction to real or personal property owned or leased by such board of education or school system.
(10) "School system" means any county school system or any independent school system of any municipality of this state.
