# § 20-2-2094. [Repealed effective 6/30/2027] Enforcement of face mask wearing requirement prohibited in charter schools

(a) No governing body of a charter school established pursuant to this article shall make or enforce any rule that requires students to wear face masks or face coverings while present in any area of a school or school grounds or other property owned or operated by the charter school unless such rule provides that a parent or guardian of a child enrolled in such charter school may elect for his or her child to be exempt from such rule. A parent or guardian making such election shall not be required to provide a reason or any certification of the child's health or education status. No student shall suffer any adverse disciplinary or academic consequences as a result of such election by a parent or guardian.
(b) No administrator, teacher, or other school personnel while acting within the scope of his or her employment with a charter school established pursuant to this article shall make or enforce any rule that requires students to wear face masks or face coverings while present in any area of a school or school grounds or other property owned or operated by the charter school unless such rule provides that a parent or guardian of a child enrolled in such charter school may elect for his or her child to be exempt from such rule. A parent or guardian making such election shall not be required to provide a reason or any certification of the child's health or education status. No student shall suffer any adverse disciplinary or academic consequences as a result of such election by a parent or guardian.
(c) This Code section shall not be subject to waivers pursuant to Code Section 20-2-2065 for a charter school established pursuant to this article.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 586,§ 5, eff. 3/29/2022, exp. 6/30/2027.
