# § 20-2-2063. Charter petitions

(a) The State Board of Education shall promulgate rules, regulations, policies, and procedures to govern the contents of a charter petition.
(b) The State Board of Education shall establish rules, regulations, policies, and procedures to provide for the receipt of charter petitions from a group of two or more local schools as a single charter petitioner to convert to conversion charter school status. An existing conversion charter school may join as part of a group charter petition, and if such group charter petition is approved, the new charter shall supersede the conversion charter school's previous charter. A group charter petition may be comprised of all the schools in a high school cluster as such term is defined in Code Section 20-2-2062.
(c) The State Board of Education shall establish rules, regulations, policies, and procedures to provide for charter petitions from two or more local school systems to jointly authorize a local charter school.
(d) The State Board of Education shall establish rules, regulations, policies, and procedures to provide for a charter petition from a local school system to establish a charter system. Such rules, regulations, policies, and procedures shall require that a charter petition and the charter contain an explanation of the structure, rights, and responsibilities of the principal, governing council, and local board of education of the system charter school, with an objective of maximizing school level governance and the involvement of parents, teachers, and community members in such governance.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 116,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 155,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 457, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
