# § 20-2-290. Organization of schools; employment of school administrative managers

(a) The board of education of any local school system is authorized to organize or reorganize the schools and fix the grade levels to be taught at each school in its jurisdiction.
(b) The board of education of any local school system shall be authorized to employ school administrative managers in lieu of or in addition to assistant principals. Such school administrative managers shall not be required to be certificated by the Professional Standards Commission but shall have such qualifications as determined by the local board with a minimum requirement of a bachelor's degree or satisfactory business experience. The duties of school administrative managers shall be to oversee and manage the financial and business affairs of the school. The principal shall retain authority over the curriculum and instructional areas. The school administrative manager shall report directly to the principal. In the event that a local board considers hiring or utilizing school administrative managers pursuant to this subsection, it shall receive and give all due consideration to recommendations by the school council as to whether or not to utilize such position and as to selection of the manager. Existing employees of the local board shall be eligible to serve as school administrative managers if they meet other qualifications and requirements established by the local board for such position. For purposes of earning funds for such positions, school administrative managers shall be treated in all respects the same as assistant principals.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 25, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 227,§ 7, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 142,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 20, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 449, § 7B, eff. 5/4/2004.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 29, § 15, eff. 4/9/2001.
