# § 20-2-329. Requirements for high schools that receive reform grants as chronically low-performing high schools

(1) Provide focused programs of study which are designed to provide a well-rounded education for students by fostering artistic creativity, critical thinking, and self-discipline through the teaching of academic content, knowledge, and skills that students will use in the workplace, further education, and life. The focused programs of study, whether provided at a choice technical high school, a college and career academy, a traditional high school, or on site at a technical school or college or a public college or university, shall be aligned with graduation requirements established by the State Board of Education and content standards established pursuant to Part 2 of this article, including, at a minimum, four years of mathematics, Algebra I and higher, and four years of English, with an emphasis on developing reading and writing skills to meet college and career readiness standards or including high school diploma requirements established pursuant to Code Section 20-2-149.2;
(2) Implement a teacher adviser system;
(3) Provide students in the ninth through twelfth grades information on educational programs offered in high school, in technical and community colleges, in colleges and universities, and through work based learning programs and how these programs can lead to a variety of career fields. Local school systems shall provide career awareness and exploratory opportunities such as field trips, speakers, educational and career information centers, job shadowing, and classroom centers to assist students and their parents or guardians, with guidance from school counselors and teacher advisers, in revising, if appropriate, the individual graduation plan developed pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 20-2-327;
(4) Enroll students no later than ninth grade into one of the following options for earning a high school diploma and preparing students for postsecondary education and a career which will include a structured program of academic study with in-depth studies in:
  (A) Mathematics and science;
  (B) Humanities, fine arts, and foreign language; or
  (C) A career pathway that leads to passing an industry credentialing exam in a high demand, high skill, or high wage career field or to an associate's degree or bachelor's degree. The awarding of a special education diploma to any disabled student who has not completed all of the requirements for a high school diploma, but who has completed his or her Individualized Education Program (IEP) shall be deemed to meet the requirements of this paragraph;
(5) Implement the at-risk model program developed by the State Board of Education pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-328;
(6) Comply with the rules and regulations promulgated by the State Board of Education for chronically low-performing high schools pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 20-2-328; and
(7) Schedule annual conferences to assist students and their parents or guardians in setting educational and career goals and creating individual graduation plans beginning with students in the eighth grade and continuing through high school. These conferences shall include, but are not limited to, assisting the student in identifying educational and career interests and goals, selecting a career and academic focus area, and developing an individual graduation plan.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 446,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 34, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 543,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 102,§ 4, eff. 5/11/2011.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 390,§ 1, eff. 5/20/2010.
