# § 20-2-884. Contracts for benefits or self-insurance authorized; reinsurance; certificates of coverage

(a) The board is authorized to execute a contract or contracts to provide the benefits determined upon under the health insurance plan in accordance with this subpart, or the board may, in its discretion, establish a self-insured plan in whole or in part. All of the benefits to be provided under the plan may be included in one or more similar contracts, or the benefits may be classified into different types with each type included in one or more contracts issued by the same or different qualified entities or covered under a self-insured plan. A reasonable time before entering into any insurance contract under this subpart, the board shall invite proposals from such qualified entities as, in the opinion of the board, would desire to accept any part of the insurance coverage authorized by this subpart; provided, however, that the board may, in its discretion, establish a self-insured plan in whole or in part.
(b) The board may contract with any health maintenance organization qualified to conduct business in this state pursuant to Chapter 21 of Title 33, relating to health maintenance organizations, as it now exists or may hereafter be amended, which provides evidence that it is qualified to operate as a health maintenance organization in accordance with the rules and regulations issued by the secretary of the health and human services and the secretary of the Department of Education of the United States or may contract with any other corporation licensed under Title 33 which is authorized by law to provide the same types of benefits which are provided by such health maintenance organizations.
(c) The board may arrange with any qualified entity to reinsure portions of such contract with any other entity which elects to be a reinsurer and is legally competent to enter into a reinsurance agreement. The board may designate one or more of such entities as the administering entity or entities.
(d) Each employee who is covered under any such contract or contracts shall receive a certificate setting forth the benefits to which the employee and his dependents are entitled thereunder, to whom such benefits shall be payable, to whom claims should be submitted, and summarizing the provisions of the contract principally affecting the employee and his dependents. Such certificate shall be in lieu of the certificate which the entity or entities issuing such contract or contracts would otherwise issue.
(e) The entities eligible to participate as reinsurers and the amount of coverage under the contract or contracts to be allocated to each issuing entity or reinsurer may be redetermined by the board for and in advance of any contract year after the first year and with any modifications thereof it deems appropriate to carry out the intent of such subdivision, subject to such limitations as set forth in this subpart. The board may, at the end of any contract year, discontinue any contract or contracts it has executed with any entity or entities and replace it or them with a contract or contracts in any other entity or entities meeting the requirements of this subpart or may in its discretion establish a self-insured plan in whole or in part.
