# § 20-2-2002. Establishment; membership

(a) A group of boards of education may execute an intergovernmental contract among themselves to form and become members of an interlocal risk management agency. After an interlocal risk management agency has been formed, any board of education may, subject to the bylaws and requirements of such agency, become a member and, through participation in the agency, may:
  (1) Pool its general liability risks in whole or in part with those of other boards of education;
  (2) Pool its motor vehicle liability risks in whole or in part with those of other boards of education;
  (3) Pool its property damage risks in whole or in part with those of other boards of education; or
  (4) Jointly purchase general liability, motor vehicle liability, or property damage insurance with other boards of education participating in and belonging to the interlocal risk management agency, the participating boards of education to be coinsured under a master policy or policies with the total premium apportioned among such participants.
(b) Except for the boards of education of independent school systems which elect to participate in an interlocal risk management agency for municipalities established pursuant to Chapter 85 of Title 36, there shall be only one interlocal risk management agency established for boards of education; provided, however, if the Commissioner determines that there are special or unique circumstances or special needs of groups of boards of education which justify the establishment of an additional interlocal risk management agency or agencies, he may authorize the establishment of such additional agency or agencies. Each agency may establish such group self-insurance funds as may be authorized by the Commissioner.
(c) All arrangements and agreements made under the authority of this article shall be in writing. A board of education may become a member of an interlocal risk management agency by the adoption of a resolution by the board of education. The interlocal risk management agency shall operate under such name and style as shall be provided in the intergovernmental contract creating such agency and shall have the power to bring and defend actions in all courts.
(d) All books, records, and files maintained by any administrator of any fund established by the agency, including but not limited to audit data and all active and inactive claim files, shall at all times be the sole property of the agency and shall be surrendered immediately to the agency upon demand.
