# § 20-2-2069. Office of Charter School Compliance; Office of District Flexibility

(a) There is established within the State Charter Schools Commission an Office of Charter School Compliance, which shall be staffed with personnel as provided for in subsection (d.1) of Code Section 20-2-2082, who shall report directly to the State Board of Education for purposes of this subsection. The responsibilities of such office shall be to:
  (1) Prepare charter school guidelines to be approved by the state board;
  (2) Distribute charter school petition information to inquiring parties;
  (3) Process all charter school petitions and coordinate with the Charter Advisory Committee established pursuant to Code Section 20-2-2063.1 to facilitate its review and recommendations to the state board;
  (4) Administer any state or federal charter school implementation grant program;
  (5) Contract with an independent party to evaluate the performance of charter schools as such performance relates to fulfilling the terms of their charters;
  (6) Compile information necessary to produce the annual report required by Code Section 20-2-2070; and
  (7) Assist local school systems as charter school authorizers as challenges arise, support local school systems as needed to implement best practices in charter school authorization, and regularly engage with local school systems to promote charter school authorization at the local level.
(b) There is established within the Department of Education an Office of District Flexibility, the responsibilities of which shall be to:
  (1) Prepare charter system guidelines to be approved by the state board;
  (2) Distribute charter system petition information to inquiring parties;
  (3) Process all charter system petitions and coordinate with the Charter Advisory Committee established pursuant to Code Section 20-2-2063.1 to facilitate its review and recommendations to the state board;
  (4) Administer any state or federal charter school implementation grant program;
  (5) Contract with an independent party to evaluate the performance of charter systems, as such performance relates to fulfilling the terms of their charters; and
  (6) Compile information necessary to produce the annual report required by Code Section 20-2-2070.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 459,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 116,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2007.
