# § 20-2-2115. Eligibility requirements for schools participating in scholarship program; application of participating school

(a) To be eligible to enroll a scholarship student, a participating school shall:
  (1) Have a physical location in Georgia where the scholarship students attend classes and have direct contact with the school's teachers;
  (2) Demonstrate fiscal soundness by having been in operation for one school year or by submitting a financial information report for the school that complies with uniform financial accounting standards established by the department and conducted by a certified public accountant. The report must confirm that the school desiring to participate is insured and the owner or owners have sufficient capital or credit to operate the school for the upcoming school year serving the number of students anticipated with expected revenues from tuition and other sources that may be reasonably expected. The report shall be limited in scope to those records that are necessary for the department to make a determination on fiscal soundness and to make payments to schools for scholarships;
  (3) Comply with the antidiscrimination provisions of 42 U.S.C. Section 2000d;
  (4) Comply with all health and safety laws or codes that apply to private schools;
  (5) Comply with all provisions of Code Section 20-2-690 and any other state law applicable to private schools;
  (6) Regularly report to the parent and the department on the student's academic progress, including the results of pre-academic assessments and post-academic assessments given to the student, in accordance with department guidelines; and
  (7) Employ or contract with teachers who hold a bachelor's degree or higher degree or have at least three years of experience in education or health and annually provide to the parents the relevant credentials of the teachers who will be teaching their students.
(b) A home school operating under the provisions of Code Section 20-2-690 shall not be eligible to enroll scholarship students.
(c) Residential treatment facilities licensed or approved by the state shall not be eligible to enroll scholarship students.
(d) The creation of the program shall not be construed to expand the regulatory authority of the state, its officers, or any public school system to impose any additional regulation of nonpublic schools beyond those reasonably necessary to enforce the requirements of this article.
(e) A participating school intending to enroll scholarship students shall submit an application to the department by June 30 of the school year preceding the school year in which it intends to enroll scholarship students. The notice shall specify the grade levels and services that the school has available for students with disabilities who are participating in the scholarship program. A school intending to enroll scholarship students in the 2007-2008 school year shall submit an application no later than June 30, 2007.
(f) The board shall approve a participating school's application to enroll scholarship students if the school meets the eligibility requirements of this article and complies with board rules established pursuant to Code Section 20-2-2117. The board shall make available to local school systems and the public a list of participating schools.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 117,§ 1, eff. 5/18/2007.
