# § 20-2-1180. Loitering in or on a school safety zone; penalty; required check in of visitors; posting signs of required check in

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to remain in or on any school safety zone in this state or to remain in or on any such school safety zone when such person does not have a legitimate cause or need to be present thereon. Each principal or designee of each public or private school in this state shall have the authority to exercise such control over the buildings and grounds upon which a school is located so as to prohibit any person who does not have a legitimate need or cause to be present thereon from loitering upon such premises. Each principal or designee of each public or private school in this state shall notify the appropriate law enforcement agency to prohibit any person who does not have a legitimate need or cause to be present therein from loitering within the school safety zone.
(b) Any person who:
  (1) Is present in or on any school safety zone in this state and willfully fails to remove himself or herself from such school safety zone after the principal or designee of such school requests him or her to do so; or
  (2) Fails to check in at the designated location as required by subsection (c) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature.
(c) Upon entering any school building between the official starting time and the official dismissal time, any person who is not a student at such school, an employee of the school or school system, a school board member, an approved volunteer following the established guidelines of the school, or a person who has been invited to or otherwise authorized to be at the school by a principal, teacher, counselor, or other authorized employee of the school shall check in at the designated location as stated on posted signs and provide a reason for his or her presence at the school.
(c.1) Subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section shall not apply to:
  (1) Law enforcement officers, firefighters, emergency medical technicians or paramedics, or any public safety or emergency management officials in the performance of an emergency call or to other persons making authorized deliveries to the school;
  (2) Any person entering a school on election day, for purposes of voting, when the school serves as an official polling place; or
  (3) Any person attending or participating in an academic or athletic event while remaining in the authorized area or a parent, grandparent, or guardian listed on a child's pick-up list who fails to sign-in while delivering school supplies, food, clothing, other legitimate business and who has not previously been sanctioned by school officials for disrupting a school.
(d) A school administrator or his or her designee may ask any visitor to explain his or her presence in the school building at any time when the school is in official session.
(e) If the school posts signs on entrances to the school requiring visitors to check in at the designated location, such signs shall be deemed prima-facie evidence that persons entering the school were on notice of the requirements of this Code section.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit school administrators from prohibiting the admission of any person who has violated school policy or state law.
(g) As used in this Code section, the term "school safety zone" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 16-11-127.1.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 604,§ 3-4, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 575,§ 2-10, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 616,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 899, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
