# § 20-2-159.5. Georgia Seal of Biliteracy; purpose; qualifications; insignia

(a) There is established a Georgia Seal of Biliteracy to recognize high school graduates who have attained a high level of proficiency in speaking, reading, and writing one or more languages in addition to English.
(b) The purposes of the Georgia Seal of Biliteracy are as follows:
  (1) To encourage pupils to study foreign languages;
  (2) To certify attainment of biliteracy;
  (3) To provide employers with a method to identify people with language and biliteracy skills;
  (4) To provide universities with a method to recognize and give academic credit to applicants seeking admission; and
  (5) To recognize and promote foreign language instruction in public schools.
(c) In order to qualify for the Georgia Seal of Biliteracy, a high school graduate shall meet the following criteria:
  (1) Completion of all English language arts requirements for graduation with an overall grade point average of 3.0 or above in those classes; and
  (2) Proficiency in one or more languages other than English, demonstrated by passing a foreign language advanced placement examination with a score of 4 or higher or an international baccalaureate examination with a score of 5 or higher; provided, however, that for languages in which an advanced placement examination is not available, the Department of Education may provide a listing of equivalent summative examinations that local school systems may use in place of such an advanced placement examination.
(d)
  (1) A local school system participating in the Georgia Seal of Biliteracy program shall maintain appropriate records in order to identify pupils who have earned a Georgia Seal of Biliteracy and shall affix the appropriate insignia to the diploma or transcript of each pupil who earns such seal.
  (2) Local school system participation in the Georgia Seal of Biliteracy program shall be voluntary. No local school system shall be required to expend additional resources or hire additional personnel to implement the provisions of this Code section.
(e) The Department of Education shall prepare and deliver to participating local school systems an appropriate insignia to be affixed to the diploma or transcript of the pupil indicating that such pupil has been awarded a Georgia Seal of Biliteracy.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 618,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Repealed by 2015 Ga. Laws 34,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 543,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 226,§ 5, eff. 5/13/2011.
