# § 20-2-910. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Board of Community Health established under Chapter 2 of Title 31.
(2) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of community health established under Chapter 2 of Title 31.
(3) "Public school employee" means an "employee" as defined in paragraph (20) of Code Section 47-4-2. Such term also means and includes classroom aides, paraprofessionals, and noncertified administrative and clerical personnel. It is specifically provided, however, that such term shall not include any emergency or temporary employee or any other employee who works in a position otherwise covered by such term less than 60 percent of the time required to carry out the duties of such position. Such term also means and includes any person, other than an employee in a professionally certificated capacity or position, employed not less than half time and compensated in a charter school in this state established pursuant to either Article 31 or Article 31A of this chapter if such charter school elects to participate in the health insurance plan established pursuant to this subpart upon initial approval of its charter or, if such charter school is an existing charter school, upon renewal of its charter, upon notice by the health insurance plan provided in this part, or upon the expiration of its current health care plan. Notwithstanding this definition or any other provision of this subpart, the board may, by regulation, make available to employees who work 17 1/2 hours or more per week such benefits as are required to be made available to such employees by regulations of the United States Internal Revenue Service or any other federal authority.
(4) "Qualified entity" means any person, association, corporation, or other legal entity with which the board is authorized under Chapter 18 of Title 45 to contract.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 158,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-7, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 572,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
