# § 20-2-319.4. Virtual instruction programs; notice of opportunities; mechanisms for compliance; curriculum plan

(a) Beginning with the 2013-2014 school year, each local school system shall provide opportunities to all students in grades three through 12 enrolled in public schools within its boundaries for participation in part-time and full-time virtual instruction program options. Written notice of such opportunities, including an open enrollment period for full-time students of at least 90 days and not ending earlier than 30 days prior to the first day of the school year, shall be provided directly to parents of all students. The purpose of the program shall be to make quality virtual instruction available to students using online and distance learning technology in the nontraditional classroom. The program shall provide at least three options for:
  (1) Full-time virtual instruction for students enrolled in grades three through 12; and
  (2) Part-time virtual instruction for students enrolled in grades three through 12. A virtual instruction program conducted by a local school system shall include specific provisions for at least two full-time options and one part-time option for students enrolled in dropout prevention and academic intervention programs or Department of Juvenile Justice education programs under Code Section 20-2-133.
(b) To provide students with the option of participating in virtual instruction programs as required by subsection (a) of this Code section, a local school system may apply one or all of the following mechanisms:
  (1) Facilitate enrollment in the Georgia Virtual School established pursuant to Code Section 20-2-319.1;
  (2) Facilitate enrollment in one or more courses pursuant to the clearing-house established pursuant to Code Section 20-2-319.3;
  (3) Enter into a contract with a provider for the provision of a full-time program under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Code section or a part-time program under paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section; or
  (4) Enter into an agreement with another local school system or systems to allow the participation of its students in an approved virtual instruction program provided by such other local school system or systems. The agreement shall indicate a process for the transfer of funds. Contracts and agreements entered into pursuant to paragraph (3) or (4) of this subsection may include multidistrict contractual arrangements that may be executed by a regional educational service agency for its member school systems.
(c) Each contract entered into pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of this Code section with a provider shall at a minimum set forth a detailed curriculum plan that illustrates how students will be provided services for, and be measured for attainment of, proficiency in state requirements for content standards for each grade level and subject.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 31, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 708,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2012.
