# § 20-2-771.2. School health nurse programs

(a) Each local board of education shall establish policies and procedures regarding a school health nurse program. Such school health nurse programs shall be staffed by licensed health care professionals and may include consultation with offsite health care professionals through appropriate protocols and contracts. Each local board of education may contract or consult with health professionals knowledgeable in children's health issues to establish the standards, policies, and procedures of a school health nurse program. Such standards, policies, and procedures shall be in accordance with the restrictions set forth in Code Section 20-2-773.
(b) Subject to appropriations, there may be established within the Department of Education a school health nurse program coordinator, whose responsibilities may include:
  (1) Assisting local school systems in establishing and implementing the school health nurse programs required by subsection (a) of this Code section, including development of guidelines for utilizing volunteers and retirees to supplement the programs;
  (2) Assisting in standardizing the reporting of any health information from local school systems;
  (3) Assisting local school systems in identifying and obtaining available additional funding and support for school health nurse programs from federal and other sources, including, but not limited to, Medicaid funds and partnerships with local hospitals or other health care facilities; and
  (4) Other related duties to support school health nurse programs.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 610,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
