# § 20-2-149.2. Accelerated Career Diploma Program

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "Accelerated Career Diploma Program."
(b) A local board of education shall be authorized to award a high school diploma to a student enrolled in coursework pursuant to Code Section 20-2-161.3 who:
  (1)
    (A) Has completed at least the following courses:
      (i) The high school English course, including its end-of-course assessment, required for purposes of federal accountability requirements, plus at least one additional state funded core English course;
      (ii) The high school math course, including its end-of-course assessment, required for purposes of federal accountability requirements, plus either a state funded course on the foundations of algebra or one other state funded core math course;
      (iii) The high school science course, including its end-of-course assessment, required for purposes of federal accountability requirements, plus at least one additional state funded core science course;
      (iv) Any two state funded core social studies courses; provided, however, that in lieu of taking a second state funded core social studies course, a student shall be permitted to take a third state funded math course in addition to the courses required in division (ii) of this subparagraph, provided that such math course is aligned with competencies required by such student's technical college program of study; and
      (v) One health and physical education course.
    (B) School personnel shall counsel each student to choose state funded courses provided for in divisions (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph that meet workforce needs and are appropriate for such student based on his or her competencies and on the competencies required in the technical college program of study.
    (C) As used in this paragraph, the term "state funded core" courses shall include any high school course listed as core or required on the state funded course list and any technical college diploma-level or postsecondary degree-level English, math, science, or social studies course for which the student earns dual credit.
    (D) The State Board of Education shall adopt content standards for a minimum course of instruction in foundations of algebra that may be chosen by students participating in the Accelerated Career Diploma Program to meet the requirements of division (ii) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph; and
  (2)
    (A) Completes:
      (i) an associate's degree program in applied science at a unit of the Technical College System of Georgia;
      (ii) a technical college diploma program or program leading to licensure at a unit of the Technical College System of Georgia; or
      (iii) at least two technical college certificate of credit programs included in the High-demand Career List published by the State Workforce Development Board as provided in Code section 34-14-3.
    (B) The State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia shall publish a list that identifies which certificates are in the same program of study or closely related programs of study. A student meets the requirements of division (iii) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph by completing at least two certificates in the same program of study or in closely related programs of study.
(c) The State Board of Education, in consultation with the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia, shall establish rules and regulations to implement the provisions of this Code section.
(d) A student who meets the requirements of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be deemed to have met all graduation requirements of the State Board of Education and shall not be subject to any assessments otherwise required for purposes of graduation.
(e)
  (1) There is established the ACE Grants program to provide for awarding accelerated career education grants to students participating in the Accelerated Career Diploma Program, as provided for in this Code section.
  (2) The Georgia Student Finance Commission shall be authorized to provide funds appropriated by the General Assembly for the implementation of a program to award ACE grants to students pursuing a degree, diploma, or certificate provided for in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section.
  (3) The Georgia Student Finance Commission shall assess the program and shall, no later than December 1 of each year during the program, provide the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the director of the Office of Planning and Budget, and the chairpersons of the House Committee on Education, the Senate Education and Youth Committee, the House Committee on Higher Education, and the Senate Higher Education Committee with a comprehensive report to include recommendations as to the program's continued implementation and any changes deemed necessary for such program.
  (4) The Georgia Student Finance Commission, in consultation with the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia and the State Board of Education, shall establish rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this Code section to implement, assess, and report on the program.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 559,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 20, eff. 5/3/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 33,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
