# § 20-2-149.1. Instruction in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and use of automated external defibrillator; requirements

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "Cory Joseph Wilson Act."
(b) As used in this Code section, the term "psychomotor skills" means skills using hands-on practice to support cognitive learning.
(c) Beginning in the 2013-2014 school year, each local board of education which operates a school with grades nine through 12 shall provide instruction in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of an automated external defibrillator to its students as a requirement within existing health or physical education courses. Such training shall include either of the following and shall incorporate into the instruction the psychomotor skills necessary to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation and use an automated external defibrillator:
  (1) An instructional program developed by the American Heart Association or the American Red Cross; or
  (2) An instructional program which is nationally recognized and is based on the most current national evidence based emergency cardiovascular care guidelines for cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of an automated external defibrillator.
(d) A teacher shall not be required to be a certified trainer of cardiopulmonary resuscitation or to facilitate, provide, or oversee instruction which does not result in certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of an automated external defibrillator.
(e) This Code section shall not be construed to require students to become certified in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of an automated external defibrillator; provided, however, that if a local board of education chooses to offer courses which result in certification being earned, such courses shall be taught by instructors in cardiopulmonary resuscitation and the use of an automated external defibrillator authorized to conduct an instructional program included in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (c) of this Code section.
(f) The Department of Education shall establish a procedure to monitor adherence by local boards of education.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 141,§ 7-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 30,§ 2A, eff. 7/1/2017.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 129,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
