# § 20-2-1022. Online instructional resources relating to American history for educators

To increase student understanding of, and familiarity with, American historical documents and to provide curriculum support to classroom teachers of United States history, American government and civics, economics, and social studies, the Department of Education is strongly encouraged to create an online instructional resource page or pages for teachers, which may include, but is not limited to, links to websites, foundational documents, and lesson plan ideas. In order to create shared digital resources available to all students in this state, such online resources may be integrated with the Teacher Resource Link of the Statewide Longitudinal Data System. At a minimum, such resource page or pages may include the items in paragraphs (1) through (11) of subsection (a) of Code Section 20-2-1021 and may focus on the foundational principles of limited constitutional government, federalism, religious liberty, freedom of speech, the right to private property, free enterprise, and the rule of law. There shall be no content based censorship of American history, writings of the Founding Fathers, or heritage documents referred to in this Code section due to their religious or cultural nature. It is strongly encouraged that the online teacher resource page be completed and made easily available to teachers no later than July 31, 2016, and support the requirements specified in Code Section 20-2-1020.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 38A, eff. 7/1/2015.
