# § 20-2-779.4. Water safety education; notifications to parents and guardians; exclusions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "water safety education" means education intended to promote safety in, on, and around bodies of water and reduce the risk of injury or drowning.
(b) At the beginning of each school year, each public school or local school system shall provide the parents and guardians of each child enrolled in such school or school system with information on the important role water safety education courses and swimming lessons play in saving lives. Such information shall be provided in electronic or hard copy format. Such information shall include options, if available within the vicinity of the public school or local school system, for age-appropriate water safety education courses and swimming lessons that can result in a certificate indicating successful completion, including courses and lessons offered for free or at a reduced price; provided, however, that such information shall be provided directly to students who are 18 years of age or older.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require public schools or local school systems to:
  (1) Provide water safety education courses or swimming lessons to students; or
  (2) Excuse students from all or part of any school day to attend water safety education courses or swimming lessons.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 343,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
Code Section 20-2-779.3, as enacted by 2023 Ga. Laws 343, Section 2, was redesignated as Code Section 20-2-779.4.
