# § 20-2-212.6. Limitation on salary increase for school superintendent or administrators

(a) If any local board of education furloughs teachers, paraprofessionals, cafeteria workers, bus drivers, custodians, support staff, or other nonadministrative positions during any school year, such local board of education shall not use any state funds to provide a salary increase for the local school superintendent or administrators during such school year; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to any step increases on the state salary schedule which are applicable to a superintendent or administrator.
(b) In the event that any local board of education intends to provide a salary increase using local funds or private donations for the local school superintendent or administrators during a school year in which such local board of education furloughs teachers, paraprofessionals, cafeteria workers, bus drivers, custodians, support staff, or other nonadministrative positions, the local board of education shall prior to such action:
  (1) Provide 30 days' notice of such intention including the rationale for raising such salaries when other local board of education employees are furloughed; and
  (2) Conduct a public hearing for the purpose of providing an opportunity for full discussion and public input. The public hearing shall be advertised at least seven days prior to the date of such hearing in a local newspaper of general circulation which shall be the same newspaper in which other legal announcements of the local board of education are advertised.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 20, eff. 5/13/2011.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 367,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 142,§ 2, eff. 5/3/2005.
