# § 20-2-1127. Data base of names and licenses of school bus operators; suspension or revocation of license

(a) Each local board of education employing or using persons as school bus drivers shall submit to the Department of Public Safety the full name and driver's license number of every person who is to be employed or used as a school bus driver prior to authorizing such person to operate a school bus. Such local board of education shall provide an updated list to the Department of Public Safety twice within a calendar year as provided for in rules and regulations promulgated by the commissioner of public safety.
(b) The Department of Public Safety shall operate and maintain a data base of the names and license information of the persons provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section and, in coordination with the Georgia Technology Authority and the Department of Driver Services for immediate electronic furnishing of information, shall confirm or verify the status of each such person's driver's license and provide notification to the appropriate local board of education if such person's driver's license or driving privileges have expired or been canceled, suspended, or revoked.
(c)
  (1) Upon notice that a person's driver's license or driving privileges have expired or been canceled, suspended, or revoked, the local board of education shall suspend or revoke the authorization it has given to such person to drive a school bus and inform such person of, and reason for, the suspension or revocation.
  (2) Any person authorized to drive a school bus by a local board of education shall notify the local board of education if such person's driver's license or driving privileges have expired or been canceled, suspended, or revoked.
  (3) A person's whose authorization to drive a school bus has been suspended or revoked by a local board of education pursuant to this Code section may request a new authorization to drive a school bus upon the reinstatement of his or her driver's license or driving privileges.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 71,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2019.
