# § 20-2-751. Definitions

(1) "Dangerous weapon" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 16-11-121.
(2) "Expulsion" means expulsion of a student from a public school beyond the current school quarter or semester.
(3) "Firearm" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 16-11-127.1.
(4) "Hazardous object" means any dirk, bowie knife, switchblade knife, ballistic knife, any other knife having a blade of two or more inches, straight-edge razor, razor blade, spring stick, knuckles, whether made from metal, thermoplastic, wood, or other similar material, blackjack, any bat, club, or other bludgeon-type weapon, or any flailing instrument consisting of two or more rigid parts connected in such a manner as to allow them to swing freely, which may be known as a nun chahka, nun chuck, nunchaku, shuriken, or fighting chain, or any disc, of whatever configuration, having at least two points or pointed blades which is designed to be thrown or propelled and which may be known as a throwing star or oriental dart, or any instrument of like kind, any nonlethal air gun, and any stun gun or taser as defined in subsection (a) of Code Section 16-11-106. Such term shall not include any of these instruments used for classroom work authorized by the teacher.
(5) "Long-term suspension" means the suspension of a student from a public school for more than ten school days but not beyond the current school quarter or semester.
(6) "Short-term suspension" means the suspension of a student from a public school for not more than ten school days.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 575,§ 1-3, eff. 7/1/2014.
