# § 20-2-154.3. Agricultural programs in elementary schools; evaluation

(a) The Department of Education, through its agricultural education program employees described in Code Section 20-2-154.2, is authorized to administer an agricultural education program that local school systems may offer in elementary schools. If a local board of education elects to offer an elementary agricultural education program in an elementary school, the local board of education shall agree to implement and fully fund such program in accordance with this Code section and the practices or standards established by the agricultural education program of the Department of Education. The local school system shall employ an agricultural education teacher to provide such program for the elementary school.
(b) The Department of Education, through its agricultural education program employees described in Code Section 20-2-154.2, shall establish the curriculum for each elementary agricultural education program. Such curriculum shall be grade-appropriate and include instruction in an organized classroom; collaborative learning experiences through investigation and inquiry, including laboratory and site-based learning activities; and personal and leadership development opportunities.
(c) The Department of Education, through its agricultural education program, shall provide for a program evaluation regarding the success and impact of the pilot program in place in the 2019-2020, 2020-2021, and 2021-2022 school years and shall report in writing the results of such evaluation to the House Committee on Agriculture and Consumer Affairs and the Senate Agriculture and Consumer Affairs Committee and to the House Committee on Education and the Senate Education and Youth Committee, by December 31, 2022.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 599,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 294,§ 2, eff. 4/27/2018.
