# § 20-2-161.4. [Repealed Effective6/30/2027] Accessing HOPE scholarship funds for dual enrolled students; reports

(a)
  (1) Beginning July 1, 2023, each student participating in the Dual Enrollment program provided for in Code Section 20-2-161.3 who is eligible for a HOPE grant pursuant to Code Section 20-3-519.5 shall be allowed to access HOPE grant funds for eligible CTAE courses, as defined in Code Section 20-2-161.3, irrespective of whether such student has reached any maximum credit hour cap provided for in Code Section 20-2-161.3.
  (2) For three years beginning on July 1, 2023, the Georgia Student Finance Commission, in collaboration with the Technical College System of Georgia, shall collect and report data on:
    (A) Student enrollment in and completion of at least one eligible CTAE course, as defined in Code Section 20-2-161.3, as part of the Dual Enrollment program provided for in Code Section 20-2-161.3;
    (B) HOPE grant funding and Dual Enrollment program funding, including, but not limited to, the number of students who received such funding and the maximum, mean, median, and mode amounts of such funding received by students;
    (C) Postsecondary credits earned by students who received such funding;
    (D) The number of students who enrolled in a postsecondary degree program after completing a program of study that includes at least one eligible CTAE course, as defined in Code Section 20-2-161.3, as part of the Dual Enrollment program provided for in Code Section 20-2-161.3; and
    (E) The number of students employed in a high-demand field after completing a focused program of study identified by the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia as part of the High Demand Apprenticeship Program provided for in Code Section 20-4-152. No later than January 1 each year, the Georgia Student Finance Commission shall provide an interim report to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the director of the Office of Planning and Budget, and the chairpersons of the House Committee on Education, the Senate Education and Youth Committee, the House Committee on Higher Education, and the Senate Higher Education Committee. A final report shall be provided to the same no later than December 1, 2027.
  (3) The Georgia Student Finance Commission, in consultation with the State Board of Education, the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia, and the Office of Workforce Development, shall establish rules and regulations to implement the provisions of this subsection.
(b) This Code section shall stand repealed on June 30, 2027.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 560,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 559,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 54,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
