# § 20-2-942. Procedure for nonrenewal; professional certificated personnel; rights of school administrators; tenure

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Local board of education" or "local board" means a county or independent board of education, a board of education of an area school system, or any agent with the authority to act on behalf of any such board.
  (1.1) "School administrator" means any professional school employee certificated by the Professional Standards Commission who is required to hold a leadership certificate and is assigned to a leadership position pursuant to rules of the State Board of Education, Department of Education, Professional Standards Commission, or requirements of local policy or job description.
  (2) "School year" means a period of at least 180 school days, or the equivalent thereof as determined in accordance with State Board of Education guidelines, beginning in or about September and ending in or about June.
  (3) "School year contract" means a contract of full-time employment between a teacher and a local board of education covering a full school year. A contract of employment for a portion of a school year shall not be counted as a school year contract, nor shall contracts of employment for portions of a school year be cumulated and treated as a school year contract. A contract of employment for any time outside a school year shall not be counted as a school year contract, nor shall contracts of employment for time outside a school year be cumulated and treated as a school year contract. A school year contract is deemed included within a contract of full-time employment between a teacher and a local board of education covering a full calendar or fiscal year.
  (4) "Teacher" means any professional school employee certificated by the Professional Standards Commission, but not including school administrators.
(b)
  (1) A teacher who accepts a school year contract for the fourth consecutive school year from the same local board of education may be demoted or the teacher's contract may not be renewed only for those reasons set forth in subsection (a) of Code Section 20-2-940.
  (2) In order to demote or fail to renew the contract of a teacher who accepts a school year contract for the fourth or subsequent consecutive school year from the same local board of education, the teacher must be given written notice of the intention to demote or not renew the contract of the teacher. Such notice shall be given by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery as provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 20-2-940. Such notice shall contain a conspicuous statement in substantially the following form: You have the right to certain procedural safeguards before you can be demoted or dismissed. These safeguards include the right to notice of the reasons for the action against you and the right to a hearing. If you desire these rights you must send to the school superintendent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery a statement that you wish to have a hearing; and such statement must be mailed to the school superintendent within 20 days after this notice was mailed to you. Your rights are governed by subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-211, Code Section 20-2-940, and Code Sections 20-2-942 through 20-2-947, and a copy of this law is enclosed.A copy of subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-211, Code Section 20-2-940, this Code section, and Code Sections 20-2-943 through 20-2-947 shall be enclosed with the notice. A teacher who is so notified that he or she is to be demoted or that his or her contract will not be renewed has the right to the procedures set forth in subsections (b) through (f) of Code Section 20-2-940 before the intended action is taken. A teacher who has the right to these procedures must serve written notice on the superintendent of the local board employing the teacher within 20 days of the day the notice of the intended action is served that he or she requests a hearing. In order to be effective, such written notice that the teacher requests implementation of such procedures must be served by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery as provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 20-2-940. Within 14 days of service of the request to implement the procedures, the local board must furnish the teacher a notice that complies with the requirements of subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-940.
  (3) A teacher is deemed to have accepted a fourth consecutive school year contract if, while the teacher is serving under the third consecutive school year contract, the local board does not serve notice on the teacher by May 15 that it intends not to renew the teacher's contract for the ensuing school year, and the teacher does not serve notice in writing on the local board of education by June 1 of the third consecutive school year that he or she does not accept the fourth consecutive school year contract.
  (4) A teacher who has satisfied the conditions set forth in paragraph (1) of this subsection who is subsequently employed by another local board of education and who accepts a second consecutive school year contract from the local board at which the teacher is subsequently employed may be demoted or the teacher's contract may not be renewed only for those reasons set forth in subsection (a) of Code Section 20-2-940. The provisions set forth in paragraph (2) of this subsection shall likewise apply to such a teacher.
  (5) A teacher is deemed to have accepted a second consecutive school year contract if, while the teacher is serving under the first school year contract, the local board does not serve notice on the teacher by May 15 that it intends not to renew the teacher's contract for the ensuing school year, and the teacher does not serve notice in writing on the local board of education by June 1 of the first school year that he or she does not accept the second consecutive school year contract.
  (6) Local boards shall make contract offers available to teachers for a minimum ten-day review period. A teacher accepts the contract by signing and returning it any time during the ten-day period.
  (7)
    (A) Professional certificated personnel employed by a county or independent local school system that becomes consolidated with or merged into another county or independent local school system as provided in Article 8 of this chapter or otherwise shall retain their employment, except as provided in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, in the newly created, or surviving, school system. Such professional certificated personnel shall retain and carry over all the rights already accrued and earned in the professional certificated personnel's prior school system and as set forth in this paragraph.
    (B) Any reductions in staff due to loss of students or cancellation of programs in the newly created, or surviving, school system necessitated by the consolidation or merger shall be made first in preference of retaining professional certificated personnel on the basis of uniformly applied criteria set forth in local school board policies of the newly created, or surviving, school system.
(c)
  (1) A person who first becomes a school administrator on or after April 7, 1995, shall not acquire any rights under this Code section to continued employment with respect to any position of school administrator. A school administrator who had acquired any rights to continued employment under this Code section prior to April 7, 1995, shall retain such rights:
    (A) In that administrative position which such administrator held immediately prior to such date; and
    (B) In any other administrative position to which such administrator has been involuntarily transferred or assigned, and only in such positions shall such administrator be deemed to be a teacher for the purpose of retaining those rights to continued employment in such administrative positions.
  (2) A teacher who had acquired any rights to continued employment under this Code section prior to April 7, 1995, and who is or becomes a school administrator without any break in employment with the local board for which the person had been a teacher shall retain those rights under this Code section to continued employment in the position as teacher with such local board.
  (2.1) A local board of education may enter into an employment contract with a school administrator for a term not to exceed three years. During the term of any such contract, that school administrator may not be demoted except as provided in the other subsections of this Code section and may not be terminated or suspended except as provided in Code Section 20-2-940, but the school administrator shall have no right to renewal of such contract. The rights provided under such contracts by this paragraph shall be in addition to any rights which a school administrator may otherwise have under the other provisions of this subsection.
  (3) Nothing in this subsection shall affect positions which, prior to April 7, 1995, had no rights to continued employment under this Code section, including coach, athletic director, finance officer, comptroller, business manager, nurse, department head or chairperson, and similar positions. Nothing in this subsection shall impair the rights of teachers or school administrators with respect to their employment under annual contracts, including but not limited to those rights under Code Section 20-2-940.
  (4) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this subsection, a local board of education may, as part of its personnel policies, adopt or modify a tenure policy which may include the same policies and procedures for the nonrenewal of contracts for any class or category of school administrators that exist for the nonrenewal of contracts for teachers as set forth in this Code section. Before any adoption or modification of a tenure policy, the local board shall hold a public hearing after at least 30 days' notice published in the local legal organ.
(d) A person who first became a teacher on or after July 1, 2000, shall acquire rights under this Code section to continued employment as a teacher. A teacher who had acquired any rights to continued employment under this Code section prior to July 1, 2000, shall retain such rights.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 38, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 118,§ 5, eff. 5/4/2009.
