# § 20-2-70. Requirements and procedures for issuing and awarding high school diplomas to honorably discharged Korean Conflict and Vietnam Conflict veterans

Each local board of education shall issue high school diplomas to veterans who failed to receive diplomas due to an interruption of their education by service in the Korean Conflict or service in the Vietnam Conflict. The local board of education of the school district where the veteran attended high school shall award the high school diploma to such veteran. A veteran shall make application for a diploma to the appropriate local board of education and furnish proof that such person is a veteran of the Korean Conflict or the Vietnam Conflict who had his or her education interrupted as a result of service in the Korean Conflict or the Vietnam Conflict. Honorably discharged veterans who served in the Korean Conflict between June 25, 1950, and January 31, 1955, and honorably discharged veterans who served in the Vietnam Conflict between August 5, 1964, and May 7, 1975, and who did not graduate from high school are eligible for a diploma pursuant to this Code section; provided, however, that attendance in high school ranging from 1946 through 1955 with graduation class years ranging from 1951 through 1955 is required for veterans of the Korean Conflict and attendance in high school ranging from 1960 through 1975 with graduation class years ranging from 1964 through 1975 is required for veterans of the Vietnam Conflict. Veterans who qualify under this Code section and who have earned a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma are also eligible for a high school diploma. Diplomas may be awarded posthumously. The local board of education is encouraged to present such diplomas to such veterans on or near Veterans Day to bring to the attention of students the importance of such day and the great sacrifices made by such veterans.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 726,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 828, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
