# § 20-2-243. Withholding funds for failure to comply with this article

In the event a local unit of administration shall fail to comply with any provision of this article or other school laws; any provision of rules, regulations, policies, standards, or requirements established by the State Board of Education pursuant to this article; or the terms of any contract with the state board, the state board may, in its discretion, withhold from the local unit all or any part of the state contributed Quality Basic Education Program funds allotted to the local unit under this article until full compliance is made by the local unit. The state board shall, before withholding funds, notify the local unit of its intention and state the reasons for such action. The governing board of the local unit shall be entitled to a hearing before funds are withheld, provided the local board requests a hearing within 30 days from receipt of notification. If the local governing board feels itself aggrieved by the final decision of the state board following the hearing, the local board shall have the right to obtain judicial review of the decision, on the record made before the state board, by filing an appeal in the superior court of the county of the local unit affected. The appeal shall plainly specify the decision being challenged, the questions in dispute, the decision of the state board, the relief sought by the local board, and the contentions of the local board. The appeal shall be based upon the record as a whole established at the time of the hearing before the state board. A transcript of the testimony and other evidence adduced before the state board at the time of such hearing shall be prepared and certified as true and correct by the State School Superintendent and filed in the court within 30 days after date of service of a copy of the appeal upon the superintendent or within such other time as the court may allow. The decision of the state board on appeal shall not be set aside if based upon any substantial evidence in the record, considering the record as a whole. The court may, in its discretion, whether or not prayed for in the appeal, remand the matter for future proceedings or findings on such directions or terms as may be specified in the order of the court. Proceedings for review of the final judgment of the court shall follow the same course which is now or may hereafter be prescribed for other civil actions in the superior court. No funds shall be withheld until all appeals are exhausted. Any local unit of administration which feels aggrieved by any decision of the state board shall have the right to appeal under the provisions of this Code section.
