# § 20-2-271. Development of regional improvement plan; introduction of core services; instructional care teams; establishment of alternative methods of teacher certification

(a) Each regional educational service agency shall annually develop and submit to the Department of Education for approval, with a copy to the Alliance of Education Agency Heads, a regional plan for improvement of educational efficiency and cost effectiveness of its member institutions. Each plan must include the purposes and description of the services the regional educational service agency will provide to schools identified as low-performing based on the indicators adopted under Code Section 20-14-33 and to other schools.
(b) Each regional educational service agency shall introduce and provide core services for member local school systems and schools and provide core services for purchase by local school systems and schools which are not members of that regional educational service agency. These core services shall include the following:
  (1) Training and assistance in teaching each subject area assessed under Code Section 20-2-281;
  (2) Assistance specifically designed for any school that is rated academically failing under Code Section 20-14-33;
  (3) Training and assistance to teachers, administrators, members of local boards of education, and members of local school councils on school-based decision making and control; and
  (4) Assistance in complying with applicable state laws and rules of the State Board of Education and the Alliance of Education Agency Heads. Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to limit the freedom of a school system or school to purchase or refuse to purchase any core service from any regional educational service agency in this state.
(c) As part of the assistance provided by a regional educational service agency under this Code section, each regional educational service agency shall provide for the establishment of instructional care teams. Upon determining that a school under its management and control is consistently underperforming or is otherwise educationally deficient, a local board of education or state charter school may request through a regional educational service agency the appointment of an instructional care team for that school. The instructional care team shall consist of such number of persons with such experience as a principal, teacher, or other education personnel so as to best address the needs of the school. Such instructional care team shall conduct an investigation into such aspects of instruction at the school as requested by the local board or state charter school, prepare a written evaluation of such aspects of the school, and make nonbinding recommendations to the local board or state charter school regarding improvements at the school. Such investigations, evaluations, and recommendations shall focus on, but not be limited to, instruction in mathematics, science, reading and other English courses, and social studies. Instructional care teams may also provide long-term and short-term follow-up assistance, such as but not limited to instruction, instructional assistance, and professional and staff development. Each regional educational service agency shall develop a registry or listing of potential instructional care team members, together with their areas of expertise, who may be available to member or nonmember local school systems and state charter schools for service on instructional care teams. Each regional educational service agency shall promulgate rules and regulations for the purchase of the services of an instructional care team, provided that nothing in this Code section shall prevent regional educational service agencies from entering into cooperative arrangements for the mutual exchange of such services. Subject to appropriation by the General Assembly, regional educational service agencies may be provided grants for the purpose of facilitating the development and implementation of instructional care teams.
(d) Each regional educational service agency may provide any additional service and any assistance to its member systems and state charter schools, as determined by the board of control. Each regional educational service agency may offer any service and form of assistance provided for in this Code section for purchase by any local school system or school in this state or state charter school.
(e) Pursuant to rules and regulations developed by the Professional Standards Commission, each regional educational service agency shall develop programs for nontraditional alternative routes to state teacher certification as an alternative to traditional educator preparation, with special consideration provided to critical field shortages in its regional teaching workforce.
(f) Each regional educational service agency may acquire, lease, purchase, lease purchase, or dispose of real or personal property and may incur debts for those purposes, subject to the approval of such agency's board of control. Such property shall be held in the name of the regional educational service agency.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 8,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 425,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 20, eff. 4/14/2009.
