# § 20-2-143. Sex education and AIDS prevention instruction; implementation; student exemption

(a) Each local board of education shall prescribe a course of study in sex education and AIDS prevention instruction for such grades and grade levels in the public school system as shall be determined by the State Board of Education. Such course of study shall implement either the minimum course of study provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section or its equivalent, as approved by the State Board of Education. Each local board of education shall be authorized to supplement and develop the exact approach of content areas of such minimum course of study with such specific curriculum standards as it may deem appropriate. Such standards shall include instruction relating to the handling of peer pressure, the promotion of high self-esteem, local community values, the legal consequences of parenthood, and abstinence from sexual activity as an effective method of prevention of pregnancy, sexually transmitted diseases, and acquired immune deficiency syndrome.
(b) The State Board of Education shall prescribe a minimum course of study in sex education and AIDS prevention instruction which may be included as a part of a course of study in comprehensive health education for such grades and grade levels in the public school system as shall be determined by the state board and shall establish standards for its administration. The course may include instruction concerning human biology, conception, pregnancy, birth, sexually transmitted diseases, and acquired immune deficiency syndrome. The course shall include instruction concerning the legal consequences of parenthood, including, without being limited to, the legal obligation of both parents to support a child and legal penalties or restrictions upon failure to support a child, including, without being limited to, the possible suspension or revocation of a parent's driver's license and occupational or professional licenses. The course shall also include annual age-appropriate sexual abuse and assault awareness and prevention education in kindergarten through grade nine. A manual setting out the details of such course of study shall be prepared by or approved by the State School Superintendent in cooperation with the Department of Public Health, the State Board of Education, and such expert advisers as they may choose.
(c) The minimum course of study to be prescribed by the State Board of Education pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall be ready for implementation not later than July 1, 1988. Each local board shall implement either such minimum course of study or its equivalent not later than July 1, 1989. Any local board of education which fails to comply with this subsection shall not be eligible to receive any state funding under this article until such minimum course of study or its equivalent has been implemented.
(d) Any parent or legal guardian of a child to whom the course of study set forth in this Code section is to be taught shall have the right to elect, in writing, that such child not receive such course of study.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 20, eff. 5/12/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 449,§ 2A, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
