# § 20-2-751.2. Students subject to disciplinary orders of other school systems

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "disciplinary order" means any order of a local school system in this state, a private school in this state, or a public school outside of this state which imposes short-term suspension, long-term suspension, or expulsion upon a student in such system or school.
(b) A local board of education which has a student who attempts to enroll or who is enrolled in any school in its school system during the time in which that student is subject to a disciplinary order is authorized to refuse to enroll or subject that student to short-term suspension, long-term suspension, or expulsion for any time remaining in that other school system's or school's disciplinary order upon receiving a certified copy of such order if the offense which led to such suspension or expulsion in the other school system or school was an offense for which suspension or expulsion could be imposed in the enrolling school.
(c) A local school system or school may request of another school system or school whether any disciplinary order has been imposed by the other school system or school upon a student who is seeking to enroll or is enrolled in the requesting system or school. If such an order has been imposed and is still in effect for such student, the requested school system or private school in this state shall so inform the requesting system or school and shall provide a certified copy of the order to the requesting system or school.
(d) If any school administrator determines from the information obtained pursuant to this Code section or from Code Section 15-11-599, 15-11-602, or 15-11-707 that a student has been convicted of or has been adjudicated to have committed an offense which is a class A designated felony act or class B designated felony act under Code Section 15-11-2, such administrator shall so inform all teachers to whom the student is assigned and other school personnel to whom the student is assigned. Such teachers and other certificated professional personnel as the administrator deems appropriate may review the information in the student's file provided pursuant to this Code section that has been received from other schools or from the juvenile courts or superior courts. Such information shall be kept confidential.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 4-37, eff. 1/1/2014.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 449, § 13, eff. 5/4/2004.
