# § 20-2-705. Parental consent for participation in school clubs and organizations

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Clubs and organizations" means clubs and organizations comprised of students who wish to organize and meet for common goals, objectives, or purposes and which is directly under the sponsorship, direction, and control of the school. This term shall include any activities reasonably related to such clubs and organizations, but shall not include competitive interscholastic activities or events.
  (2) "Competitive interscholastic activity" means functions held under the auspices or sponsorship of a school that involves its students in competition between individuals or groups representing two or more schools. This term shall include cheerleading, band, and chorus.
(b) Each local board of education shall include in the student code of conduct distributed annually at the beginning of each school year pursuant to Code Section 20-2-736 information regarding school clubs and organizations. Such information shall include without limitation the name of the club or organization, mission or purpose of the club or organization, name of the club's or organization's faculty advisor, and a description of past or planned activities. On the form included in the student code of conduct, as required in Code Section 20-2-751.5, the local board of education shall provide an area for a parent or legal guardian to decline permission for his or her student to participate in a club or organization designated by him or her.
(c) For clubs or organizations started during the school year, the local board of education shall require written permission from a parent or guardian prior to a student's participation.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 819,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2006.
