# § 20-2-66. School breakfast programs

(a) Each local school system in this state is encouraged to establish and support a school breakfast program to make breakfast available to all students in kindergarten through grade eight. All school systems are required to establish and support a school breakfast program in all schools with kindergarten through grade eight if at least 25 percent of the student population is eligible for free or reduced price lunch under federal guidelines and in all schools not containing kindergarten through grade eight if at least 40 percent of the student population is eligible for free or reduced price lunch under federal guidelines. School breakfast programs shall be phased in over a period beginning September 1, 1994, and ending June 15, 1996, in all such schools. Each local school system operating a school breakfast program pursuant to this Code section shall be reimbursed by the state at the federal reimbursement rate per meal prepared and served. The school breakfast program reimbursement by the state shall be automatically terminated if federal funding for this program ceases.
(b) The State Board of Education shall promulgate rules and regulations which:
  (1) Establish minimum nutritional requirements for school breakfast programs which meet or exceed the minimum federal regulations;
  (2) Utilize federal standards of income eligibility for free or reduced price meals for lower income students;
  (3) Prescribe uniform methods of determining eligibility for free or reduced price meals that are discreet and accessible. Each participating school system shall establish a method to regularly notify parents of the availability of the program;
  (4) Provide that each participating local board of education submit a plan of compliance;
  (5) Provide that compliance with the standards and regulations of the National School Lunch Act and Child Nutrition Act of 1966, as amended, shall be deemed compliance with the requirements promulgated by the board;
  (6) Assist the local school board in applying for and obtaining start-up grant money for such programs.
