# § 20-2-991. Liability insurance for performance of duties authorized; actions against insurers

In addition to other compensation paid to members of the State Board of Education, the State School Superintendent, and employees of the state board, and to members of boards of education, school superintendents, teachers, principals, officers, and employees of boards of control of cooperative educational service agencies, and other administrators and employees of county and other local public school systems, the state board, the boards of control of cooperative educational service agencies, and the several boards of education of counties, cities, and independent school systems, whenever created, are authorized, in their discretion, to purchase policies of liability insurance or contracts of indemnity insuring or indemnifying the members of the state board, State School Superintendent, employees of the state board, officers and employees of boards of control of cooperative educational service agencies, and the members of the boards of education, superintendents, teachers, principals, and other administrators and employees against damages arising out of the performance of their duties or in any way connected therewith, whether based upon negligence, violation of contract rights, or violation of civil, constitutional, common-law, or other statutory rights, whether state, federal, or both. Such boards may expend state, county, federal, and local funds, or any combination thereof, for such purposes. The amount of such insurance or indemnity shall be in the discretion of the respective board. No action shall be maintained against the person or company issuing such insurance or contracting for such indemnity until final judgment has first been entered against the individual covered by such policy or contract.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 37, eff. 1/1/2013.
