# § 20-2-984.5. Professional Standards Commission - Preliminary investigations; disciplinary actions; hearings; consultative services

(a) After a preliminary investigation authorized by Code Section 20-2-984.4, the commission shall review the report of the investigator and either determine that no further action need be taken or recommend that a particular disciplinary action be imposed. This determination shall be made no later than the commission's regularly scheduled meeting next occurring after 60 days from receipt of the findings of the preliminary investigation.
(b) Prior to the expiration of that period referred to in subsection (a) of this Code section, the commission may extend the review period if unusual and compelling circumstances render it impracticable for the commission to complete its review within such period. Any such order shall recite with particularity the circumstances which render it impracticable for the commission to complete its review within such period. Any such extension by the commission shall be for a period of time not to exceed 30 days. Prior to the expiration of the extended review period, the review period may be further extended by further order of the commission for one additional period not to exceed 30 days if unusual and compelling circumstances render it impracticable to complete the review within the extended review period. Such further order further extending the review period shall likewise recite with particularity the circumstances which render it impracticable for the commission to complete its review within the review period as previously extended. Notwithstanding any provision of this subsection to the contrary, in cases where there are pending criminal charges against an educator, the commission, on its own motion or in response to a request by an educator, may enter an order extending the review period until the criminal charges have been fully resolved.
(c) If the commission finds that there is probable cause for imposing a sanction against the educator, it may recommend any combination of the following:
  (1) That the educator be warned, reprimanded, monitored, or any combination thereof; or
  (2) That the certificate of the educator be suspended, revoked, or denied. The commission shall provide to the educator, at the time of the initial probable cause finding, a written summary statement of the findings of fact upon which the probable cause was determined.
(d) In a contested case, if the commission determines that probable cause exists to impose a sanction against an educator or to deny a certificate to an applicant, an opportunity for a hearing shall be provided to the educator or applicant pursuant to Code Section 50-13-41. Based on the findings of fact and conclusions of law of the administrative law judge as provided in that Code section, the commission may take any combination of the actions referred to in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(e) If after reviewing the findings of the preliminary investigation the commission finds that no probable cause exists to recommend disciplinary action or the educator investigated is exonerated after a hearing, then all records of the commission's investigation and of any hearing by the commission, including all reports received pursuant to this subsection, made pursuant to this Code section and pertaining to the educator investigated shall be completely expunged.
(f) In addition to making recommendations pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section, the commission may provide consultative services pertaining to the teaching profession to anyone who has a vested interest in education and make recommendations to the state board or to local boards which will promote an improvement in the teaching profession. The commission shall be authorized to hold meetings for the purposes of determining recommendations pursuant to this subsection; and, at such meetings, the commission may receive testimony from educators or other persons interested in the improvement of the teaching profession; but the powers provided by subsection (d) of this Code section may not be exercised pursuant to the authority of this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 126,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 458, § 6, eff. 7/1/2002.
