# § 20-2-244. Waiver requests by a local board of education; requirements for application for waiver; period of waiver; blanket waivers

(a) The State Board of Education is authorized to waive specifically identified state rules, regulations, policies, and procedures, or provisions of this chapter, upon the request of a local board of education and in accordance with this Code section. The goal for each waiver shall be improvement of student performance.
(b) The State Board of Education is not authorized to waive any federal, state, and local rules, regulations, court orders, and statutes relating to civil rights; insurance; the protection of the physical health and safety of school students, employees, and visitors; conflicting interest transactions; the prevention of unlawful conduct; any laws relating to unlawful conduct in or near a public school; any reporting requirements pursuant to Code Section 20-2-320 or Chapter 14 of this title; the requirements of Code Section 20-2-210; the requirements of Code Section 20-2-211.1; or the requirements in subsection (c) of Code Section 20-2-327. A school or school system that has received a waiver shall remain subject to the provisions of Part 3 of Article 2 of Chapter 14 of this title, the requirement that it shall not charge tuition or fees to its students except as may be authorized for local boards by Code Section 20-2-133, and shall remain open to enrollment in the same manner as before the waiver request.
(c) The provisions of this Code section shall not apply to charter schools.
(d) The board shall require a written application for a waiver that shall include, at a minimum:
  (1) Identification of the specific state rules, regulations, policies, and procedures, or provisions of this chapter that are requested for waiver;
  (2) A description of the policies and procedures the school or school system shall substitute for the waived state rules, regulations, policies, and procedures, or provisions;
  (3) A description of how the proposed waiver will improve student performance;
  (4) A description of the students who will be affected by the proposed waiver, including their estimated number, current performance, grade level, and any common demographic traits;
  (5) A list of schools by name that will be affected by the proposed waiver, and a description of each school, including current performance, grade levels, and demographic traits of the students of each such school;
  (6) Methods for collection of data, and for measuring and evaluating any change in student performance resulting from the proposed waiver;
  (7) The period of time for which the proposed waiver is requested and the proposed starting date; and
  (8) A resolution from the local school board approving the waiver request.
(e) The State Board of Education may grant or deny a waiver request, or grant a waiver request subject to specified modifications in the waiver request.
(f) A waiver may be granted in accordance with this Code section for any period of time not to exceed five years. The State Board of Education shall require reports regarding the effect of the waiver at least annually, and may require more frequent reports if necessary to monitor the effect of the waiver effectively. The State Board of Education shall report annually to the General Assembly regarding the waivers granted, the effect of each waiver, and any recommendations for legislative changes generated by successful waivers.
(g) On and after July 1, 2008, except as provided for in subsection (h) of this Code section, the State Board of Education shall not authorize any waivers or variances pursuant to this Code section to any local school system for the following:
  (1) Class size requirements in Code Section 20-2-182; provided, however, that the state board shall be authorized to waive class size requirements pursuant to this Code section on and after July 1, 2008, in the event that a local school system can demonstrate a hardship pursuant to a waiver request;
  (2) Expenditure controls in Code Section 20-2-171 and categorical allotment requirements in Article 6 of this chapter;
  (3) Certification requirements in Code Section 20-2-200; or
  (4) Salary schedule requirements in Code Section 20-2-212. A local school system which has received a waiver or variance pursuant to this Code section prior to entering into a contract pursuant to Article 4 of this chapter shall be required to include such waiver or variance in such contract.
(h) The State Board of Education shall be authorized to provide a blanket waiver or variance of the class size requirements in Code Section 20-2-182 for all local school systems for a specified school year in the event that a condition of financial exigency occurs, as determined by the state board. For purposes of this subsection, "financial exigency" means circumstances which cause a shortfall in state appropriations and local revenue for operation of local school systems as compared with projected expenditures over the same period and such shortfall would have a material adverse effect on the operation of public schools. Subsections (c) and (f) of this Code section shall not apply to blanket waivers or variances issued pursuant to this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 20, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 21, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 226,§ 8, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 408,§ 1E, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 384,§ 5, eff. 5/20/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 394,§ 3, eff. 4/9/2008.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 449, § 6, eff. 5/4/2004.
