# § 20-2-140. State Board of Education to establish uniformly sequenced content standards; college and career readiness competency standards

(a) The State Board of Education shall establish uniformly sequenced content standards that each student is expected to master prior to completion of the student's public school education. The state board shall adopt content standards for students in kindergarten through grade 12. Each local unit of administration may expand and enrich the content standards to the extent it deems necessary and appropriate for its students and communities. Each local school system shall adopt its own curriculum which shall include appropriate instruction in the content standards.
(b) The State Board of Education, working with the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia and the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia, shall establish college and career readiness standards to demonstrate competency in reading, writing, and mathematics aligned with the content standards adopted by the state board pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section with the level of performance necessary to meet college-readiness standards in the state's technical colleges, community colleges, state colleges, and universities and in other advanced training programs.
(c) The State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia shall require its institutions to accept core coursework completed by high school students for purposes of admission into its institutions.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 662,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 226,§ 3, eff. 5/13/2011.
