# § 20-2-491. Performance audit on capital outlay projects funded by sales tax

(a) When a sales tax for educational purposes is imposed for capital outlay projects as provided in Part 2 of Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 48 and such tax generates or is reasonably anticipated to generate annualized proceeds of $5 million per year or more, the expenditure of tax proceeds shall be subject to an ongoing performance audit or performance review as provided in this Code section; but this Code section shall not apply if such tax generates annualized proceeds below $5 million.
(b) Each local board of education expending tax proceeds for capital outlay projects shall provide for a continuing performance audit or performance review of the expenditure of such funds. The local board of education shall contract with an outside auditor, consultant, or other provider for such performance audit or performance review. The performance audit or performance review contract shall:
  (1) Include a goal of ensuring to the maximum extent possible that the tax funds are expended efficiently and economically, so as to secure to the expending school district the maximum possible benefit from the tax dollars collected;
  (2) Provide for the issuance of periodic public reports, not less often than once annually, with respect to the extent to which expenditures are meeting the goal specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection; and
  (3) Provide for the issuance of periodic public recommendations, not less often than once annually, for improvements in meeting the goal specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(c) The auditor, consultant, or other provider to carry out the performance audit or performance review shall be selected through a public request for proposals process. The cost of the performance audit or performance review may be paid from the proceeds of the sales tax for educational purposes or any other available funds of the local school system.
(d) The performance audit or review shall be required when the sales tax for educational purposes is imposed in whole or in part for capital outlay projects but shall not be required when the sales tax for educational purposes is imposed for the sole purpose of retirement of previously incurred general obligation debt.
(e) The requirements of this Code section shall apply with respect to any sales tax for educational purposes which is in effect on July 1, 2003, as well as any sales tax for educational purposes imposed or reimposed on or after that date.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 30, § 6, eff. 5/20/2003.
