# § 20-2-189. Migrant student grants for schools

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "migrant student" means a child who is a student in a public school and who has, within 12 months prior to first becoming a student in such school, moved across state or school district lines with a migrant parent or guardian to enable the child, the child's parent or guardian, or a member of the child's immediate family to obtain temporary or seasonal employment in an agricultural or fishing activity.
(b) The State Board of Education shall provide grants to qualified local units of administration for the purpose of supplementing services and instruction to currently enrolled migrant students. The State Department of Education by regulation shall establish the manner in which a local unit of administration must demonstrate that any of its schools meets the eligibility requirements of this subsection.
(c) Grants under this Code section shall be subject to appropriation by the General Assembly. The grant amount for a local unit of administration to be used for a school thereof under this Code section shall be determined by multiplying the total appropriation for such grants by a fraction, the numerator of which is the average number of eligible migrant students enrolling in that school after the final FTE count as required in subsection (a) of Code Section 20-2-160 but prior to the end of the same academic year and the denominator of which is the average total number of eligible migrant students enrolling after the final FTE count as required in subsection (a) of Code Section 20-2-160 but prior to the end of the same academic year in all local units in the entire state. At least 90 percent of the grant funds received by a local unit under this Code section shall be used for direct program expenditures at the school for which the grant is computed under this subsection. Any portion of that 90 percent not so expended shall be returned to the State Department of Education.
