# § 20-2-885. Coverage for retiring school teachers and their dependents

(a) The contract or contracts shall provide for health insurance for retiring public school teachers and their spouses and dependent children, as defined by the regulations of the board, under such terms as the board may deem appropriate. The board shall adopt regulations prescribing the conditions under which a retiring public school teacher may elect to participate in or withdraw from the plan.
(b) The contract or contracts shall provide for health insurance for retired public school teachers who retired prior to January 1, 1979, and their spouses and dependent children, as defined by the regulations of the board, under such terms as the board may deem appropriate. The costs of employer contributions and the administration of providing such insurance may be assessed against such retired teachers or may be appropriated to the Department of Education. The board shall adopt regulations prescribing the conditions under which a retired employee may elect to participate in or withdraw from the plan.
(c) If a retiring or retired public school teacher or the beneficiary of such retiring or retired public school teacher exercises eligibility under board regulations to continue coverage under the plan and the retiring or retired public school teacher or the beneficiary is eligible to participate in the insurance program operated by or on behalf of the federal government under the provisions of 42 U.S.C.A. 1395, as amended, the coverage available under the public school teachers' health insurance plan shall be subordinated to the coverage available under such federal program. The board is authorized to promulgate regulations to establish the premium paid by the retiring or retired public school teacher or beneficiary to reflect the subordination of coverage.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 20, eff. 2/12/2001.
