# § 20-2-324.2. Video monitoring cameras in classrooms providing special education services; requirements; evaluations; funding

(a) The Department of Education is authorized to provide guidance for the placement of video monitoring cameras and equipment by a school in self-contained classrooms in which students receive special education services. The Department of Education is authorized to approve local school systems for participation and may approve local school systems which already utilize video monitoring cameras and equipment in their special education self-contained classrooms through an application process. The department or an approved local school system may approve schools in the local school system for participation. A local school system or school may, in its sole discretion, agree to participate.
(b) Participating local school systems or schools shall provide, at a minimum, for:
  (1) Prior notice of the placement of video monitoring cameras to the parents or guardians of each student in the approved classrooms;
  (2) The retention of videos recorded from video monitoring cameras placed pursuant to this Code section for no less than three months nor more than 12 months from the date of the recording;
  (3) The coverage by video monitoring cameras of all areas of the approved classrooms, to the extent practical; and
  (4) Procedures and requirements to protect the confidentiality of student records contained in videos recorded from video monitoring cameras placed pursuant to this Code section in accordance with the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act and Article 15 of this chapter.
(c) The video monitoring cameras shall only be used for purposes of monitoring classroom instruction, monitoring classroom interactions, and teacher observation, and review of recorded material shall only be for such purposes, except with the written permission of the parent or guardian of a child or pursuant to the subpoena of a court of competent jurisdiction. Recorded material, including identity of students or demographics of students, shall not be used for marketing purposes.
(d) The Department of Education shall provide guidelines and criteria regarding the effectiveness, feasibility, and benefits, including any impact on safety, and the Department of Education may require participating local school systems or schools to conduct an evaluation. If the department requires such evaluations, the department shall collect and report the results of such evaluation to the House Committee on Education and the Senate Education and Youth Committee.
(e)
  (1) The department shall serve as a state level flow through point for any available state or federal funding.
  (2) Local school systems may solicit and accept gifts, grants, and donations from any person or entity for use in placing video monitoring cameras in classrooms pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 528,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2016.
