# § 20-2-930. Professional liability insurance coverage for teachers and other school personnel

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Certificated personnel" means all teachers, principals, and other education personnel certificated by the Professional Standards Commission.
  (2) "Student teacher" means a college or university student in an education degree program in a unit of the University System of Georgia or in a private postsecondary institution who, as part of the degree program, is in a local school system in a classroom setting providing instruction to students and being mentored by a teacher.
(b) The Department of Administrative Services shall be authorized to purchase or provide a policy or policies of professional liability insurance, subject to appropriations by the General Assembly, insuring certificated personnel who are employed by a local school system and student teachers. Such policy or policies shall protect against damages arising out of the performance of their duties or in any way connected therewith. The amount of such insurance and the appropriate coverages shall be in the discretion of the Department of Administrative Services, subject to specific appropriations by the General Assembly.
(c) Insurance coverage provided pursuant to this Code section shall automatically cover all certificated personnel who are employed by a local school system and student teachers and shall be at no cost to such certificated personnel or student teachers.
(d) The program of insurance under this part shall be administered by the Department of Administrative Services and such department shall be authorized to promulgate any necessary rules and regulations to implement such program.
(e) The program of insurance shall be effective for insurance coverage of certificated personnel and student teachers no later than July 1, 2005.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 142,§ 3, eff. 5/3/2005.
