# § 20-2-2063.1. Charter Advisory Committee established; members; duties

(a) The state board shall establish a Charter Advisory Committee to review charter petitions for compliance with established standards of the state board, to make recommendations to the state board on charter policy, and to provide recommendations to the state board regarding charter petitions. The committee shall be composed of nine members as follows:
  (1) Three members appointed by the chairperson of the state board;
  (2) Three members appointed by the Lieutenant Governor; and
  (3) Three members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives. All members shall serve at the pleasure of their respective appointing officials. The committee shall elect a chairperson from among its membership.
(b) The committee shall conduct itself in accordance with any rules and guidelines established by the state board with regard to timeframes, procedures, and protocol.
(c) The committee shall be authorized to request clarifying information from a charter petitioner and to receive input from interested parties on a charter petition.
(d) The committee shall:
  (1) Make recommendations to the state board of approval or denial on each charter petition and shall specify the reasons for such recommendations;
  (2) Periodically make recommendations to the state board regarding charter policy; and
  (3) Make recommendations to the state board on the disbursement of planning grants for charter systems, if funds are made available.
(e) The committee shall be authorized to enter into contracts, subject to available funding, with one or more consultants to assist the committee in its duties and if directed to do so by the committee, to do the following:
  (1) Assist charter petitioners in the drafting of their petitions;
  (2) Assist charter petitioners in the design and implementation of innovative education programs and school level governance based on research, model programs, or other credible information;
  (3) Monitor and assist charter schools and charter systems; and
  (4) Perform any other functions related to the support of the committee.
(f) The committee shall work in cooperation with the Office of Charter School Compliance, as established pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 20-2-2069.
(g) The members of the committee shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred by them in carrying out their duties.
(h) The committee shall be assigned to the Department of Education for administrative purposes only, as prescribed in Code Section 50-4-3.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 459,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 116,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2007.
Repealed by 2005 Ga. Laws 155,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 449, § 19A, eff. 5/4/2004.
