# § 20-2-776.3. Stock supply of levalbuterol sulfate; requirements; limited liability

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Levalbuterol sulfate" means an orally inhaled medication that contains a premeasured single dose of levalbuterol sulfate or albuterol sulfate delivered by a nebulizer or compressor device or by a pressurized metered dose inhaler used to treat perceived respiratory distress including, but not limited to, wheezing, shortness of breath, and difficulty breathing.
  (2) "Licensed practitioner" means a physician licensed to practice medicine in this state, an advanced practice registered nurse acting pursuant to the authority of Code Section 43-34-25, and a physician assistant acting pursuant to the authority of subsection (e.1) of Code Section 43-34-103.
(b) A public or private school in this state may acquire and stock a supply of levalbuterol sulfate pursuant to a prescription issued in accordance with Code Section 26-4-116.3. A public or private school may designate an employee or agent trained in the possession and administration of levalbuterol sulfate to be responsible for the storage, maintenance, and distribution of the levalbuterol sulfate stocked by the school.
(c) Any school employee or agent of a public or private school who has completed training or received information pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 20-2-776.4 in recognizing the symptoms of respiratory distress and the correct method of administering the levalbuterol sulfate may:
  (1) Provide levalbuterol sulfate to any student such employee or agent believes in good faith is experiencing a perceived respiratory distress for immediate self-administration; or
  (2) Administer levalbuterol sulfate to any student such employee or agent believes in good faith is experiencing a perceived respiratory distress, regardless of whether the student has a prescription for levalbuterol sulfate.
(d) A public or private school may enter into arrangements with manufacturers of approved levalbuterol sulfate or third-party suppliers of levalbuterol sulfate to obtain the products free of charge or at fair market or reduced prices.
(e) No later than July 1, 2015, the State Board of Education, in consultation with the Department of Public Health, shall adopt regulations as necessary to implement the provisions of this Code section.
(f)
  (1) Any school personnel who in good faith administers or chooses not to administer levalbuterol sulfate to a student pursuant to this Code section shall be immune from civil liability for any act or omission to act related to the administration of levalbuterol sulfate, except that such immunity shall not apply to an act of willful or wanton misconduct.
  (2) Any licensed practitioner who prescribes levalbuterol sulfate pursuant to Code Section 26-4-116.3 for use by a school in accordance with this Code section shall be immune from civil liability for any act or omission to act related to the administration of such levalbuterol sulfate, except that such immunity shall not apply to an act of willful or wanton misconduct.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 56,§ 2A, eff. 7/1/2015.
