# § 20-2-670. Requirements for transferring students beyond sixth grade; conditional admission; compliance

(a) A transferring student applying for admission to a grade higher than the sixth grade shall as a prerequisite to admission present a certified copy of his or her academic transcript and disciplinary record from the school previously attended.
(b) In lieu of complying with the provision of subsection (a) of this Code section, a transferring student may be admitted on a conditional basis if he or she and his or her parent or legal guardian execute a document providing the name and address of the school last attended and authorizing the release of all academic and disciplinary records to the school administration. The parent or guardian shall be notified of the transfer of such records and shall, upon written request made within ten days of such notice, be entitled to receive a copy of such records. Within five days of the receipt of a copy of such records, the parent or guardian may make a written request for and shall be entitled to a hearing before the principal of the school or his or her designee which is the custodian of such records for the purpose of challenging the content of the records. The student or his or her parent or legal guardian shall also disclose on the same document as the release whether the child has ever been adjudicated guilty of the commission of a class A designated felony act or class B designated felony act, as defined in Code Section 15-11-2 and, if so, the date of such adjudication, the offense committed, the jurisdiction in which such adjudication was made, and the sentence imposed. Any form document to authorize the release of records which is provided by a school to a transferring student or such student's parent or legal guardian shall include a list of class A designated felony acts or class B designated felony acts. The student or his or her parent or legal guardian shall also disclose on the document whether the student is currently serving a suspension or expulsion from another school, the reason for such discipline, and the term of such discipline. If a student so conditionally admitted is found to be ineligible for enrollment pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 20-2-751.2, or is subsequently found to be so ineligible, he or she shall be dismissed from enrollment until such time as he or she becomes so eligible.
(c) Every school system in this state shall be obligated to provide complete information to a requesting school pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section within ten days of receipt of such request.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 4-33, eff. 1/1/2014.
