# § 20-2-2095.1. Definitions

(1) "Capital outlay" includes, but is not necessarily limited to, expenditures which result in the acquisition of fixed assets, existing buildings, improvements to sites, construction of buildings, construction of additions to buildings, retrofitting of existing buildings for energy conservation, and initial and additional equipment and furnishings for educational facilities.
(2) "Charter school" means a charter school:
  (A) As defined in paragraph (3) of Code Section 20-2-2062; or
  (B) Authorized by a state entity pursuant to other statutory authority.
(3) "Qualified charter school contributions" means the donation of funds by a taxpayer to a qualified charter school organization for the purchase of real property and for capital outlay for a charter school. Such donations shall only be deemed qualified for purposes of this article if any real property purchased for a charter school with the proceeds donated pursuant to this article or any charter school constructed or expanded with proceeds donated pursuant to this article shall have title held by the state board or, if approved by the state board, a local board of education or other state or local government entity.
(4) "Qualified charter school organization" means a charitable organization in this state that is exempt from federal income taxation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code which is approved by the state board to provide funds for the purchase of real property for capital outlay for charter schools in this state.
(5) "State board" means the State Board of Education.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 574,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
