# § 20-2-212.5. Additional compensation for teachers in mathematics or science

(a)
  (1) On and after July 1, 2010, and until such date as may be determined by the State Board of Education that mathematics, science, or both are no longer areas in which there is an insufficient supply of teachers, a secondary school teacher in a local school system who is or becomes certified in mathematics or science by the Professional Standards Commission shall be moved to the salary step on the state salary schedule that is applicable to six years of creditable service, unless he or she is already on or above such salary step. From such salary step, the teacher shall be attributed one additional year of creditable service on the salary schedule each year for five years.
  (2) After five years, such teacher may continue to be attributed one additional year of creditable service on the salary schedule each year if he or she meets or exceeds student achievement criteria established by the Office of Student Achievement.
  (3) Upon expiration of five years, or any year thereafter that the teacher does not meet or exceed student achievement criteria as required by paragraph (2) of this subsection, such teacher shall be moved to the salary step applicable to the actual number of years of creditable service which the teacher has accumulated.
  (4) This subsection shall be subject to appropriations of the General Assembly.
(b)
  (1)
    (A) On and after July 1, 2010, a kindergarten or elementary school teacher in a local school system who receives an endorsement in mathematics, science, or both from the Professional Standards Commission shall receive a stipend of $1,000.00 per endorsement for each year each such endorsement is in effect, up to a maximum of five years.
    (B) After five years, such teacher may continue to receive such stipend if he or she meets or exceeds student achievement criteria established by the Office of Student Achievement.
    (C) Upon expiration of five years, or any year thereafter that such a teacher does not meet or exceed student achievement as required by subparagraph (B) of this paragraph, such teacher shall cease to receive the stipend.
    (D) This paragraph shall be subject to appropriations by the General Assembly.
  (2)
    (A) In order to qualify for the stipend pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, math and science endorsements shall:
      (i) Be based on post-baccalaureate nondegree programs, independent of an initial preparation program in early childhood education;
      (ii) Consist of a minimum of three courses, of which two courses shall be focused on the advancement of content knowledge and one course, or any additional course, shall be focused on content-specific pedagogy and proven strategies for teaching math or science to children in kindergarten through fifth grade; and
      (iii) Include an authentic residency experience with a focus on application of knowledge and skills.
    (B) The Professional Standards Commission shall establish standards for the math and science endorsements provided for in this subsection.

## History

Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 51,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 142,§ 2, eff. 5/3/2005.
