# § 20-2-328. Competitive grant program

(a) Subject to appropriations by the General Assembly, the State Board of Education shall establish a competitive grant program for local school systems to implement school reform measures in selected high schools. The state board shall establish program requirements in accordance with the provisions of this Code section and shall establish grant criteria, which shall encourage alignment with industry credentialing, including postsecondary partnerships between the Technical College System of Georgia and college and career academies and other career, technical, and agricultural education programs in high schools. Priority for reform grants shall be given to chronically low-performing high schools in accordance with subsection (b) of this Code section or to high schools enhancing career, technical, and agricultural education programs to allow for greater attainment of industry credentialing in accordance with subsection (b.1) of this Code section.
(b)
  (1) The State Board of Education shall develop an evidence based model program for chronically low-performing high schools receiving a reform grant pursuant to this Code section for addressing at-risk students, which shall include various programs and curricula that have proven to be effective for at-risk students focusing on:
    (A) Identification of students at risk for being poorly prepared for the next grade level or for dropping out of school;
    (B) Strengthening retention of ninth grade students in school and reducing high failure rates;
    (C) Improving more students' performances to grade level standards in reading and mathematics by the end of ninth grade;
    (D) Assisting students and their parents or guardians in setting an outcome career and educational goal and identifying a focused program of study to achieve such goal; and
    (E) Assisting students in learning and applying study skills, coping skills, and other habits that produce successful students and adults.
  (2) The at-risk model program shall include:
    (A) Diagnostic assessments to identify strengths and weaknesses in the core academic areas;
    (B) A process for identifying at-risk students, closely monitored by the Department of Education in collaboration with local school systems to ensure that students are being properly identified and provided timely, appropriate guidance and assistance and to ensure that no group is disproportionately represented; and
    (C) An evaluation component in each high school to ensure the programs are providing students an opportunity to graduate with a high school diploma.
  (3) The at-risk model program may include various components designed to result in more students facilitating a successful start in high school and passing ninth grade such as:
    (A) Utilizing a flexible schedule that increases students' time in core language arts/reading and mathematics studies designed to eliminate academic deficiencies;
    (B) Maintaining a student-teacher ratio in ninth grade that is no higher than any other grade level ratio in high school;
    (C) Utilizing experienced and effective teachers as leaders for teacher teams in ninth grade to improve instructional planning, delivery, and reteaching strategies;
    (D) Assigning students to a teacher mentor who will meet with them frequently to provide planned lessons on study skills and other habits of success that help students become independent learners and who will help them receive the assistance they need to successfully pass ninth grade; and
    (E) Including ninth grade career courses which incorporate a series of miniprojects throughout the school year that require the application of ninth grade level reading, mathematics, and science skills to complete while students learn to use a range of technology and help students explore a range of educational and career options that will assist them in formulating post high school goals and give them a reason to stay in school and work toward achieving their stated goals.
(b.1) The State Board of Education shall develop criteria for reform grants for high schools that enhance career, technical, and agricultural education programs to allow for greater attainment of industry credentialing including postsecondary partnerships between the Technical College System of Georgia and college and career academies and other career, technical, and agricultural education programs in high schools. The grants may also be used to require that career, technical, and agricultural education teachers participate in industry credentialing training to teach courses that lead to industry credentialing.
(c) The State Board of Education shall promulgate rules and regulations for high schools receiving a reform grant pursuant to this Code section to make the high schools more relevant to and effective for all students. Such rules shall encourage high schools to implement a comprehensive school reform research based model that focuses on:
  (1) Setting high expectations for all students;
  (2) Personalizing individual graduation plans for students;
  (3) Developing small learning communities or college and career academies with a rigorous academic foundation and emphasis in broad career fields of study;
  (4) Using project based instruction embedded with strong academics to improve relevancy in learning;
  (5) Fostering collaboration among academic and career/technical teachers;
  (6) Implementing nontraditional scheduling in ninth grade for students behind in their grade level;
  (7) Promoting parental involvement; and
  (8) Training teachers to work with low-performing students and their parents or guardians.
(d) This Code section shall be subject to appropriations by the General Assembly.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 446,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3, eff. 5/11/2011.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 390,§ 1, eff. 5/20/2010.
