# § 20-2-61. Fundamental roles of local boards of education and local school superintendents

(a) The fundamental role of a local board of education shall be to establish policy for the local school system with the focus on student achievement. The fundamental role of a local school superintendent shall be to implement the policy established by the local board. It shall not be the role of the local board of education or individual members of such board to micromanage the superintendent in executing his or her duties, but it shall be the duty of the local board to hold the local school superintendent accountable in the performance of his or her duties; provided, however, that requesting and reviewing financial data and documents shall not constitute micromanaging. No individual member shall discuss any individual personnel matter with the superintendent or other school personnel except as provided for in Code Section 20-2-943, Code Section 20-2-989.7, Code Section 20-2-989.8, Code Section 20-2-1160, Code Section 50-14-3, or Code Section 50-14-4 or as otherwise authorized by law; provided, however, that the mere referral of a personnel matter to the superintendent shall not be prohibited. Local board of education members should work together with the entire local board of education and shall not have authority as independent elected officials but shall only be authorized to take official action as members of the board as a whole. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to alter, limit, expand, or enlarge any powers, duties, or responsibilities of local boards of education, local board members, or local school superintendents.
(b) Except as may be allowed by law, no local board of education shall delegate or attempt to delegate its policy-making functions.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 256,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 389,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 463,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2010.
