# § 20-2-2096.5. Appointment, term, and role of superintendent

(a) A superintendent shall be appointed for each completion special school by the state board upon consideration of one or more recommendations from the State School Superintendent and such school's governing board.
(b)
  (1) The superintendent for each completion special school shall be employed by the governing board of such school under a written contract for a term of not less than one year and not more than three years.
  (2) Any provision of any such contract which provides for an extension of the duration of employment thereunder, whether automatic or contingent upon the occurrence of one or more events, shall be void if that extension would result in employment under such contract, as extended, for a period which exceeds three years.
  (3) Such contract shall provide for a comprehensive evaluation of the superintendent by the governing board of such school at least annually.
(c)
  (1) No person shall be eligible to be appointed, employed, or to serve as the superintendent of a completion special school unless such person is of good moral character, has never been convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude, and possesses acceptable business or management experience as specified by the Professional Standards Commission or the minimum valid certificate or a letter of eligibility for said certificate required by the Professional Standards Commission.
  (2) No person shall be eligible to be appointed, employed, or to serve as the superintendent of a completion special school who has an immediate family member sitting on the governing board of such school.
(d) The superintendent of a completion special school shall have such additional qualifications as may be prescribed by policies of the governing board for such school, not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter.
(e) The superintendent of a completion special school may concurrently serve as a principal, teacher, or in another staff position as directed by the governing board of such school in its sole discretion and in accordance with the terms of the contract between the superintendent and the governing board.
(f) No substantive or procedural right regarding employment or termination of employment of a superintendent of a completion special school by the governing board of such school shall be created by this Code section. Rather, the terms and conditions of employment of the superintendent of a completion special school by the governing body of such school shall be determined exclusively by the contract between those parties and may include, without being limited to, the conditions under and procedures by which that contract may be terminated prior to the end of the term of that contract.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 342,§ 3, eff. 5/4/2023.
