# § 20-2-159.1. Focused programs of study

(a) The Department of Education shall develop, and the State Board of Education shall approve, state models and industry required content standards, after consultation with industries in Georgia and in collaboration with the Technical College System of Georgia and the University System of Georgia to ensure alignment with postsecondary opportunities, for the following focused programs of study, as defined in Code Section 20-2-326, including, but not limited to:
  (1) Agriculture, food, and natural resources;
  (2) Architecture and construction;
  (3) Arts, audio-video technology, and communications;
  (4) Business, management, and administration;
  (5) Education and training;
  (6) Finance;
  (7) Health science;
  (8) Hospitality and tourism;
  (9) Human services;
  (10) Information technology;
  (11) Law, public safety, and security;
  (12) Manufacturing;
  (13) Government and public administration;
  (14) Marketing, sales, and service;
  (15) Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics;
  (16) Transportation, distribution, and logistics;
  (17) Energy; and
  (18) Lifeguarding and aquatic safety. Such focused programs of study may be combined around these and other related clusters.
(b) The focused programs of study established pursuant to this Code section may include or be revised to include industry certifications or industry credentialing, as defined in Code Section 20-2-326, pertinent to any such focused program of study. After consultation with employers and industries in Georgia, the Department of Education and the Technical College System of Georgia shall jointly establish a list of industry credentials that are required by Georgia employers. Such list shall be made available on the Department of Education and the Technical College System of Georgia websites. Such list shall be annually reviewed and updated as appropriate and made available prior to the beginning of the annual competitive grant application process provided for in subsection (j) of Code Section 20-2-260.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 414,§ 2, eff. 4/22/2024.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 446,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 662,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 226,§ 5, eff. 5/13/2011.
