# § 20-2-774. Self-administration of asthma medication

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Medication" means a medicine prescribed by:
    (A) A physician licensed under Chapter 34 of Title 43; or
    (B) A physician assistant licensed under Chapter 34 of Title 43 who is authorized to prescribe medicine for the treatment of asthma in accordance with said chapter.
  (2) "Self-administration of asthma medication" means a student's discretionary use of asthma medication prescribed for him or her.
(b) Each local board of education shall adopt a policy authorizing the self-administration of asthma medication by a student who has asthma, provided that any student who is authorized for self-administration of asthma medication under such policy may possess and use his or her asthma medication:
  (1) While in school;
  (2) At a school sponsored activity;
  (3) While under the supervision of school personnel; or
  (4) While in before-school or after-school care on school operated property.
(c) Each public school in this state shall permit the self-administration of asthma medication by a student who has asthma, subject to the local policy adopted pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section; and the school district and its employees and agents shall incur no liability other than for willful or wanton misconduct for any injury to a student caused by his or her self-administration of asthma medication.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 925, § 2, eff. 7/1/2002.
