# § 20-2-1076. Alternative vehicles for school buses; limitations on use; requirements; insurance

(a) Local boards of education may authorize the use of vehicles other than school buses for the transport of students to and from school and school related activities, where appropriate. Such vehicles may include motor vehicles with a capacity of eight persons or less operated and marked for the transportation of school children to and from school and school related activities.
(b) Local boards shall comply with all requirements established by the State Board of Education pursuant to Code Section 20-2-188, including minimum standards and requirements, which shall be delineated separately from requirements for school buses; for maintenance, repair, inspection, and use of such vehicles; minimum qualifications for the drivers of such vehicles; and other requirements as deemed necessary by the State Board of Education. Local boards may establish requirements in addition to such minimum state requirements, in the discretion of the local board.
(c) Local boards are authorized and required to cause policies of insurance to be issued insuring the students being transported to and from school and school related activities against bodily injury or death at any time resulting from an accident or collision in which such vehicles are involved. The amount of such insurance shall be within the discretion of each local board of education.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 470,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
