# § 20-2-2064.1. Review of charter by state board; charters for state chartered special schools

(a) Prior to approval or denial of a charter petition under this Code section, the state board shall receive and give all due consideration to the recommendation and input from the Charter Advisory Committee established in Code Section 20-2-2063.1.
(b) The state board shall approve the charter of a charter petitioner if the petition has been approved by the local board of the local school system in which the proposed charter school will be located and the state board finds, after receiving input from the Charter Advisory Committee, that the petition complies with the rules, regulations, policies, and procedures promulgated in accordance with Code Section 20-2-2063 and the provisions of this title and is in the public interest. If the state board denies a petition, it must within 60 days specifically state the reasons for the denial, list all deficiencies with regard to Code Section 20-2-2063, and provide a written statement of the denial to the charter petitioner and to the local board.
(c) No application for a state chartered special school may be made to the state board by a petitioner for a conversion charter school that has been denied by a local board. Upon denial of a petition for a start-up charter school by a local board and upon application to the state board by the petitioner, the state board shall approve the charter of a start-up charter petitioner for a state chartered special school if the state board finds, after receiving input from the Charter Advisory Committee, that such petition meets the requirements set forth in Code Section 20-2-2063 and the provisions of this title, and is in the public interest.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 116,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 155,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 457, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
