# § 20-2-2100. Creation of oversight committee to review operations of high school athletic associations

(a) There is created as a joint committee of the General Assembly the High School Athletics Overview Committee to be composed of five members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House, one of whom shall be a member of the minority party; five members of the Senate appointed by the Lieutenant Governor, one of whom shall be a member of the minority party; the chairperson of the House Committee on Education or his or her designee; and the chairperson of the Senate Education and Youth Committee or his or her designee. The members of the committee shall serve two-year terms concurrent with their terms as members of the General Assembly. The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Lieutenant Governor shall each designate a cochairperson from among the appointees of their respective houses. The cochairpersons shall serve terms of two years concurrent with their terms as members of the General Assembly. Vacancies in an appointed member's position or in the offices of cochairperson of the committee shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. The committee shall periodically inquire into and review the operations of high school athletic associations, as defined in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(b) No high school which receives funding under Article 6 of this chapter shall participate in, sponsor, or provide coaching staff for interscholastic sports events which are conducted under the authority of, conducted under the rules of, or scheduled by any high school athletics association unless such association complies with the provisions of this article.
(c) As used in this Code section, the term "committee" means the High School Athletics Overview Committee, and the term "high school athletic association" means any association of schools or any other similar organization which acts as an organizing, sanctioning, scheduling, or rule-making body for interscholastic athletic events in which public high schools in this state participate.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 553,§ 1A, eff. 7/1/2014.
