# § 20-2-149.3. Requirements for computer science education

(a) The General Assembly finds that:
  (1) Education in computer science is a critical need for the students of Georgia for the twenty-first century;
  (2) Less than 0.5 percent of high school graduates have taken a computer science course;
  (3) There are thousands of unfulfilled computer science jobs in the state; and
  (4) The logical thinking skills taught by computer science are now very valuable in many noncomputer science jobs, as technology has become embedded in most professions.
(b) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Computer science" means the study of computers, algorithmic processes, coding, and logical thinking, including computer principles, their hardware and software designs, their implementation, and their impact on society.
  (2) "Computer science courses and content" means high school courses that teach computer science as stand-alone implementations and middle school courses that provide instruction in computer science in stand-alone implementations or by being embedded in other subjects and focus on how to create and understand technology, rather than by simply using technology.
  (3) "High-quality professional learning" means professional development activities that:
    (A) Clarify the conceptual foundations of computer science;
    (B) Teach research based practices, including hands-on and inquiry based learning; and
    (C) Are intended for teachers with or without prior exposure to computer science.
  (4) "High-quality professional learning providers" means institutions of higher education in this state, local school systems, nonprofit organizations, or private entities that have successfully designed, implemented, and scaled high-quality professional learning for teachers and are approved or recommended by the State Board of Education in coordination with the Department of Education.
  (5) "Offer" means providing a course taught by a computer science teacher:
    (A) Who is onsite at the physical location of the school; or
    (B) Who is not onsite at the physical location of the school but conducts the course through virtual means with a proctor onsite at the physical location of the school.
(c)
  (1) Beginning in the 2022-2023 school year:
    (A) Each local school system shall provide that at least one high school in its school system offer a course in computer science;
    (B) Each local school system shall provide that all middle schools in its school system offer instruction in exploratory computer science;
    (C) Each state charter school that serves high school students shall offer a course in computer science;
    (D) Each state charter school that serves middle school students shall offer instruction in exploratory computer science;
    (E) Each local school system may provide that all elementary schools in its school system offer instruction in exploratory computer science; and
    (F) Each state charter school that serves elementary school students may offer instruction in exploratory computer science.
  (2) Beginning in the 2023-2024 school year, each local school system shall provide that at least 50 percent of the high schools in its school system offer a course in computer science.
  (3) Beginning in the 2024-2025 school year, each local school system shall provide that all high schools in its school system offer a course in computer science.
(d) The Department of Education shall ensure that the Georgia Virtual School operated pursuant to Code Section 20-2-319.1 has sufficient capacity to enable schools to utilize computer science courses to meet the needs of such schools as a result of this Code section.
(e)
  (1) Subject to appropriations, grants shall be provided to eligible entities to deliver professional development programs for teachers providing instruction in computer science courses and content.
  (2) Eligible entities shall include local school systems, consortia of local school systems, local charter schools, state charter schools, and high-quality professional learning providers working in partnership with local school systems.
  (3) Criteria for grant awards to eligible entities pursuant to this subsection shall include:
    (A) The number of teachers in a local school system that require training and the number of teachers in a local school system that have already received training; and
    (B) The willingness of local school systems to make available their teachers who have received training in computer science courses and content to provide computer science instruction in another local school system or systems.
  (4) The Department of Education shall submit a report on December 1 of each year to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the chairperson of the Senate Education and Youth Committee, and the chairperson of the House Committee on Education. Such report shall include the number of teachers trained, the number of schools offering training, the number of students served and the demographics of such students, and a list of the eligible entities that provided the training.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 20, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 135,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
