# § 20-2-52. Term of office; number of members; staggering of terms

(a) Effective January 1, 2012, members of local boards of education shall be elected for terms of not less than four years, provided that longer terms of office may be provided by local Act or constitutional amendment.
(b)
  (1) Each local board of education shall have no more than seven members as provided by local Act.
  (2) This subsection shall not apply to a local board of education whose board size exceeds seven members as provided by local constitutional amendment or federal court order or pursuant to a local law in effect prior to July 1, 2010; provided, however, that if the local law of any such local board of education is amended to revise the number of members on such board, paragraph (1) of this subsection shall apply.
(c) Members of local boards of education in office on July 1, 2011, who are serving terms of office of less than four years shall serve until December 31, 2012, and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Members elected in 2011 shall serve until December 31, 2014, and until their respective successors are elected and qualified. Successors to all such members shall be elected to serve four-year terms of office and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
(d) The General Assembly, by local law, may provide for staggered terms of office and term limits for such offices. On and after January 1, 2015, the General Assembly by local law may provide for terms of less than four years for members of local boards of education.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 9,§ 1, eff. 4/20/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 463,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
