# § 20-2-59. [Effective Until 6/30/2027] Rules

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, each local school superintendent and local board of education shall make rules to govern their respective local school systems.
(b)
  (1) No local board of education shall make or enforce any rule pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section that requires students to wear face masks or face coverings while present in any area of a school or school grounds or other property owned or operated by the local school system unless such rule provides that a parent or guardian of a child enrolled in such local school system may elect for his or her child to be exempt from such rule. A parent or guardian making such election shall not be required to provide a reason or any certification of the child's health or education status. No student shall suffer any adverse disciplinary or academic consequences as a result of such election by a parent or guardian.
  (2) No local school superintendent shall make or enforce any rule pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section that requires students to wear face masks or face coverings while present in any area of a school or school grounds or other property owned or operated by the local school system unless such rule provides that a parent or guardian of a child enrolled in such local school system may elect for his or her child to be exempt from such rule. A parent or guardian making such election shall not be required to provide a reason or any certification of the child's health or education status. No student shall suffer any adverse disciplinary or academic consequences as a result of such election by a parent or guardian.
(c) This Code section shall not be subject to waivers pursuant to Code Section 20-2-82 for a strategic waivers school system, Code Section 20-2-244 for a local board of education, Code Section 20-2-2063.2 for a charter system, or Code Section 20-2-2065 for a charter school established pursuant to Article 31 or Article 31A of this chapter, a charter system, or schools within a charter system.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 586,§ 2, eff. 3/29/2022, exp. 6/30/2027.
This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
