# § 20-2-151. General and career education programs; purpose; authorized programs

(a) The primary purpose for the general and career education programs is to provide the children and youth of Georgia with a quality opportunity to master uniformly sequenced content standards adopted by the State Board of Education.
(b) The following general and career education programs are authorized for purposes of funding under this article:
  (1)
    (A) All local school systems may offer a full-day kindergarten program. For purposes of this subsection, the term "full-day kindergarten program" means a student is provided classroom instruction for a minimum of four and one-half hours daily for a 180 day school year, or the equivalent thereof as determined in accordance with State Board of Education guidelines.
    (B) It is the policy of this state that the purposes of the kindergarten program shall be to provide all children with an equal opportunity to become prepared for a successful first grade experience and to acquire the foundation for academic progress throughout the students' educational careers. To be eligible for enrollment in a state supported kindergarten program, a child must attain the age of five by September 1, except as otherwise provided by subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-150;
  (2) It is the policy of this state that the purpose of the primary grades program shall be mastery by enrolled students of the essential basic skills and knowledge which will enable them to achieve more advanced skills and knowledge offered at the higher grade levels. For purposes of funding under this article, the primary grades program shall include grades one, two, and three. To be eligible for enrollment in the first grade of a state supported primary grades program, a child must attain the age of six by September 1, except as otherwise provided by subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-150. The State Board of Education shall adopt an instrument or instruments, procedures, and policies necessary to assess the first grade readiness of children enrolled in Georgia's public school kindergarten programs pursuant to Code Section 20-2-281. Readiness information obtained by the instrument or instruments adopted by the state board shall be used by local school systems in concert with teacher recommendations and other relevant information to make appropriate student grade placement decisions. The Department of Education shall develop guidelines for utilization of the instrument or instruments in grade placement decisions and shall provide such guidelines to local school systems. The guidelines shall include information pertinent to consideration of the placement of students who have been identified as being disabled or limited-English-proficient. Whenever the decision is made not to promote a child to the first grade, the local school system shall document the reasons for the decision not to promote, according to guidelines established by the board. The State School Superintendent may annually provide a report summarizing the results of the readiness of first grade Georgia public school kindergarten children. No student shall remain in kindergarten for more than two years;
  (3) It is the policy of this state that the primary purposes of the middle grades program shall be assuring the mastery of essential basic skills and knowledge, assisting students in the transition from childhood to adolescence, and preparing students for the selection of programs and courses consistent with their abilities and interests when they enter high school, as well as providing an opportunity for mastery of essential but more advanced skills and knowledge. For purposes of funding under this article, the middle grades program shall include grades four, five, six, seven, and eight; and
  (4)
    (A) It is the policy of this state that the primary purposes of the high school programs shall be to prepare students for the continuation of their education beyond high school and for entry into their chosen career fields as well as to prepare them to take their places in society as young adults. The following high school programs for grades nine, ten, 11, and 12 are authorized for purposes of funding under this article:
      (i) The high school education program; and
      (ii) The career, technical, and agricultural education laboratory program.
    (B) As a reflection of the reduced teacher-student ratios and more extensive material and equipment needed for effective laboratory courses compared to courses with no or only limited laboratory experiences, the career, technical, and agricultural education laboratory program shall be funded at a higher level than the high school general education program. The state board shall adopt criteria which courses must meet in order to qualify for the career, technical, and agricultural education laboratory program.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 335,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 118,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2009.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 20, eff. 2/12/2001.
