# § 20-2-51. Election of local board of education members; persons ineligible to be members or superintendent; ineligibility for local boards of education; ineligibility for other elective offices

(a) No person shall be eligible for election as a member of a local board of education who is not a resident of the school district in which that person seeks election and of the election district which such person seeks to represent. Whenever there is in a portion of any county a local school system having a board of education of its own, receiving its pro rata of the public school fund directly from the State School Superintendent and having no dealings whatever with the local board, then the members of the board of such county shall be selected from that portion of the county not embraced within the territory covered by such local system.
(b) Whenever a member of a local board of education moves that person's domicile from the district which that person represents, such person shall cease to be a member of such local board of education, and a vacancy shall occur. The member shall provide notice of such move to the secretary of the local board of education and the election superintendent within ten days of such move.
(c)
  (1) No person serving on the governing body of a private elementary or secondary educational institution shall be eligible to serve as a member of a local board of education.
  (2) No person employed by a local board of education shall be eligible to serve as a member of that board of education.
  (3) No person employed by the Department of Education or serving as a member of the State Board of Education shall be eligible to serve as a member of a local board of education.
  (4)
    (A) No person who has an immediate family member sitting on a local board of education or serving as the local school superintendent or as a principal, assistant principal, or system administrative staff in the local school system shall be eligible to serve as a member of such local board of education. As used in this paragraph, the term "immediate family member" means a spouse, child, sibling, or parent or the spouse of a child, sibling, or parent whose employment as the local school superintendent or as a principal, assistant principal, or system administrative staff in the local school system began on or after January 1, 2010. This paragraph shall apply only to local board of education members elected or appointed on or after July 1, 2009. Nothing in this Code section shall affect the employment of any person who is employed by a local school system on or before July 1, 2009, or who is employed by a local school system when an immediate family member becomes a local board of education member for that school system.
    (B) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-244, in local school systems in which the initial fall enrollment count conducted in 2009 pursuant to Code Section 20-2-160 does not exceed a full-time equivalent count of 2,800, the State Board of Education shall be authorized to waive this paragraph upon the request of a local board of education or an individual attempting to qualify to run for local board of education member and in accordance with the provisions of subsections (d) and (e) of Code Section 20-2-244; provided, however, that prior to submitting any such request, the local board of education shall, upon its own initiative, or at the request of such individual attempting to qualify to run for local board of education member:
      (i) Provide 30 days' notice of the individual's intent to run for office; and
      (ii) Conduct a public hearing for the purpose of providing an opportunity for full discussion and public input on the issue of potential nepotism problems and other concerns with regard to such waiver. The public hearing shall be advertised at least seven days prior to the date of such hearing in a local newspaper of general circulation which shall be the same newspaper in which other legal announcements of the local board of education are advertised. The public hearing may be conducted in conjunction with a regular or called meeting of the local board or may be conducted independently, at the local board's discretion. The cost of such notice and public hearing shall be borne by the local board. The State Board of Education shall approve or deny a waiver request no later than 45 days after receipt of such waiver request, taking into consideration whether the benefit to the public would justify approval of the waiver. An approved waiver must be received by the local election superintendent prior to an individual's filing of a declaration or notice of candidacy in accordance with Article 4 of Chapter 2 of Title 21.
(d) Reserved.
(e) In addition to any other requirements provided by law, no person shall be eligible for election as a member of a local board of education unless he or she:
  (1) Has read and understands the code of ethics and the conflict of interest provisions applicable to members of local boards of education and has agreed to abide by them;
  (2) Has agreed to annually disclose compliance with the State Board of Education's policy on training for members of local boards of education, the code of ethics of the local board of education, and the conflict of interest provisions applicable to members of local boards of education; and
  (3) Has completed all prior annual training requirements established by the local board of education and the State Board of Education pursuant to Code Section 20-2-230 if such person is eligible for reelection as a member of the local board of education. Each person offering his or her candidacy for election as a member of a local board of education shall file an affidavit with the officer before whom such person has qualified for such election prior to or at the time of qualifying, which affidavit shall affirm that he or she meets all of the qualifications required pursuant to this subsection. This subsection shall apply only to local board of education members elected or appointed on or after July 1, 2010.
(f) No person who is on the National Sex Offender Registry or the state sexual offender registry shall be eligible for election to or service on a local board of education.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 389,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 20, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 463,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 164,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 91,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
