# § 20-2-81. Strategic plan and proposed contract for local school systems requesting flexibility; strategic waivers school system

(a) Each local school system which elects to request increased flexibility pursuant to this article shall develop a five-year strategic plan which sets out the school system's vision and mission for improving the performance of its schools and shall clearly delineate in a proposed contract the following for measuring the improvement and performance of its schools:
  (1) Current performance data, grade levels, and demographic data for each school within the school system;
  (2) Performance goals for each school, including both improvement and achievement; and
  (3) Performance measures and benchmarks for each school for evaluating improvement and achievement and monitoring progress toward yearly performance goals.
(b) The proposed strategic plan shall incorporate, to the extent practicable, school improvement plans in effect for schools in the local school system.
(c) The department shall provide an electronic template accessible through the Internet for local school systems to input their proposed contracts. The template shall be designed to include the information contained in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(d) Prior to the submission of a proposed contract to the department, a local board of education shall schedule and hold a public hearing for the purpose of providing an opportunity for full discussion and public input on the strategic plan and proposed contract, including formal, written comments or suggestions regarding the local school system's flexibility requests and performance goals and their impact on each school. The public hearing shall be advertised in a local newspaper of general circulation which shall be the same newspaper in which other legal announcements of the local board of education are advertised.
(e) The local school system shall submit the proposed contract to the department in accordance with time frames established by the department.
(f) A local school system which elects to request increased flexibility pursuant to this article shall be known as a strategic waivers school system.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 1B, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 394,§ 1, eff. 4/9/2008.
