# § 20-2-181. Calculation of program weights to reflect base school size

The calculation of all program weights shall reflect a base size local school system of 3,300 full-time equivalent students. The calculation of program weights for the kindergarten program, the kindergarten early intervention program, the primary grades (1-3) early intervention program, the primary grades (1-3) program, the upper elementary grades (4-5) early intervention program, and the upper elementary grades (4-5) program shall reflect a base school size of 450 full-time equivalent students. The calculation of program weights for the middle school (6-8) program, the special education programs, the remedial education program, and the English for speakers of other languages program shall reflect a base school size of 624 full-time equivalent students. The calculation of program weights for the high school general education program and the high school career, technical, and agricultural education laboratory program shall reflect a base school size of 970 full-time equivalent students. The calculation of program weights for the alternative education program shall reflect a base school size of 100 full-time equivalent students, except that the calculations for secretaries and media personnel shall reflect a base school size of 624 full-time equivalent students.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 335,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 29, § 8, eff. 4/9/2001.
