# § 20-2-305. County and regional libraries

(a) The board of regents shall annually determine and request of the General Assembly the amount of funds needed for county and regional public libraries. This request shall include, but not be limited to, funds to provide library books and materials, salaries and travel for professional librarians, capital outlay for public library construction, and maintenance and operation. The amount for library books and materials shall be not less than 35¢ per person. Funds for the purpose of paying the salaries of librarians allotted shall be in accordance with regulations established by the state board and the state minimum salary schedule for certificated professional personnel. Public library funds shall be apportioned to county and regional public libraries in proportion to the area and population to be served by such libraries in accordance with regulations and minimum public library requirements prescribed by the state board. All such funds shall be distributed directly to the regional or county library boards.
(b) The board of regents shall make adequate provisions for staff, supplies, services, and facilities to operate and maintain special media equipment to meet the library needs of the blind and disabled citizens of this state.
(c) The board of regents shall provide the staff, materials, equipment, and supplies to provide a book-lending and information service to all county and regional public libraries in the state and to coordinate interlibrary cooperation and interchange of materials and information among all types of libraries.
(d) The board of regents is authorized as the sole agency to receive federal funds allotted to this state for public libraries.
(e) The board of regents shall adopt policies and regulations to implement this Code section.
(f) As used in this Code section, the term "board of regents" means the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia.
