# § 20-2-2075. Grant program for replicating high-performing charter schools

(a) The State Board of Education is authorized to establish a grant program for the purpose of replicating high-performing charter schools, including local charter schools, state chartered special schools, and state charter schools. The grant program shall include funding, subject to appropriations by the General Assembly, for grants to charter applicants and existing charter schools to replicate high-performing charter schools or features or programs of high-performing charter schools that have been proven to be effective.
(b) Grants shall be provided primarily for charter schools in rural areas, charter schools that primarily serve students with special needs, and charter schools that serve educationally disadvantaged students.
(c) Grants shall be awarded based on criteria, terms, and conditions established by the State Board of Education, in consultation with the State Charter Schools Commission. The grant program criteria may take into account the likelihood of success in replicating a high-performing charter school or feature or program of a high-performing charter school, whether a particular model lends itself to replication, the reasonableness of the costs involved in replication, and such other criteria deemed appropriate.
(d) The State Board of Education, in consultation with the State Charter Schools Commission, is authorized to develop rules and regulations to implement the grant program established pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 425,§ 6A, eff. 7/1/2018.
