# § 20-2-319.5. Enrolling home study and private school students in college and career courses

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "College and career academy" has the same meaning as in Code Section 20-4-37.
  (2) "Course" means a course offered by a college and career academy to public school students enrolled in such college and career academy.
  (3) "Home study student" means a student in a home study program which meets the requirements of subsection (c) of Code Section 20-2-690.
  (4) "Private school student" means a student in a private school which meets the requirements of subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-690.
  (5) "Resident school system" means the local school system in which a home study student or a private school student would be enrolled by virtue of his or her residence.
(b) Local school systems are authorized to enroll home study students and private school students in one or more courses at a college and career academy which is geographically located within the student's resident school system, so long as space is available in such course or courses.
(c) The State Board of Education shall promulgate rules and regulations to effectuate the provisions of this Code section, which may include, but not limited to:
  (1) Forms for use by local school systems to enroll a home study student or a private school student;
  (2) Timelines for enrolling and withdrawing from a course;
  (3) Procedures for reporting academic progress and grades to the student's parent or guardian and the student's home study program or private school;
  (4) Procedures for handling disciplinary issues that arise relating to home study students and private school students while attending the courses;
  (5) Procedures for reporting disciplinary issues to the student's parent or guardian; and
  (6) Any other procedures or requirements deemed necessary by the state board.
(d) Home study students and private school students enrolled in courses in college and career academies pursuant to this Code section shall meet all of the same requirements for enrollment and participation in a course; shall be subject to all rules, including the school's code of conduct; and shall be subject to any fees for a course which are applicable to the public school students enrolled in the college and career academy.
(e) Home study students and private school students shall be responsible for transportation to and from the college and career academy.
(f) A local board of education shall earn FTE funds for each home study student and private school student enrolled in one or more courses pursuant to this Code section at a college and career academy that has a charter with such local board of education. Such funds shall be earned in accordance with Code Section 20-2-160 for any one-sixth segment of the day or its block scheduling equivalent that each such student attends in a manner similar to nonresident students, or in accordance with State Board of Education guidelines established for such purpose. A local board of education shall not charge home study students or private school students tuition to enroll in a course pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 379,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2020.
