# § 20-2-2068. Termination of a charter

(a) The state board may terminate a charter under the following circumstances:
  (1)
    (A) If a majority of the parents or guardians of students enrolled at the charter school vote by a majority vote to request the termination of its charter at a public meeting called with two weeks' advance notice and for the purpose of deciding whether to request the state board to declare the charter null and void; or
    (B) If a majority of the faculty and instructional staff employed at the charter school vote by a majority vote to request the termination of its charter at a public meeting called with two weeks' advance notice and for the purpose of deciding whether to request the state board to declare the charter null and void. This paragraph shall not apply to system charter schools;
  (2) If, after providing reasonable notice to the charter school or charter system, as applicable, and an opportunity for a hearing, the state board finds through its own audit or through other means:
    (A) A failure to comply with any recommendation or direction of the state board with respect to Code Section 20-14-41;
    (B) A failure to adhere to any material term of the charter, including but not limited to the performance goals set forth in the charter;
    (C) For a charter system, a failure to promote school level governance as required by the charter;
    (D) A failure to meet generally accepted standards of fiscal management;
    (E) A violation of applicable federal, state, or local laws or court orders;
    (F) The existence of competent substantial evidence that the continued operation of the charter school or charter system would be contrary to the best interests of the students or the community; or
    (G) A failure to comply with any provision of Code Section 20-2-2065; or
  (3) Upon the written request of a local board for termination of a charter for a local charter school located within its school system if, prior to making such request, the local board provided reasonable notice to the charter school and an opportunity for a hearing, and determined the existence of any of the grounds described in paragraph (2) of this Code section.
(b) For a system charter school, if the school council or governing council, as applicable, at such school within the charter system requests that:
  (1) The system charter be terminated; or
  (2) The system charter be amended with respect to such system charter school, the state board, after providing reasonable notice to the charter system and the system charter school, shall conduct a hearing. Based on the findings of the hearing, the state board may enter into negotiations with the charter system to amend the charter to address the concerns of the requesting system charter school. If negotiations fail and the state board finds good cause, the state board shall be authorized to terminate the system charter or to amend the system charter with respect to the requesting system charter school; provided, however, that the local board shall be authorized to terminate the system charter if it is unwilling to accept the amendments to such charter by the state board. The term "good cause" includes but is not limited to a local board's failure to comply with its obligations and duties under the system charter, state board rules, or other applicable law, or other good cause as determined in the sole discretion of the state board.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 24,§ 5, eff. on January 1, 2017, only if an amendment to the Constitution is ratified at the November, 2016, general election expressly allowing the General Assembly to authorize the establishment of an Opportunity School District to provide for state intervention for failing schools.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 335,§ 30, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 471,§ 20, eff. 5/12/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 116,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 457, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
