# § 20-2-5.1. Annual public hearings in congressional district from which each State Board of Education member is appointed

(a) Each member of the State Board of Education shall hold one or more public hearings annually during the regular school calendar year in the respective congressional district from which the member was appointed. The purpose of the public hearing shall be to hear testimony from interested citizens and educators within the congressional district regarding the performance and problems of public education within the congressional district. The public hearing will be held in an appropriate public building located within the respective congressional district. Each board member shall attempt to hold the public hearings at locations throughout such member's respective congressional district. The public hearing will begin at 7:00 P.M. if held on Monday through Friday or at 10:00 A.M. if held on Saturday. No public hearing required by this Code section shall be held on Sunday.
(b) A member of the State Board of Education holding a public hearing required by this Code section shall:
  (1) Cause a notice of the date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing to be published at least once during each of two consecutive weeks immediately preceding the week during which the hearing is held, which notice shall be published in the official legal organ of each county wholly or partially within the congressional district unless there is any other newspaper having a general paid circulation in said county which exceeds that of the official organ, in which event the notice shall be published in any such other newspaper;
  (2) Issue a press release to the print and broadcast media serving the congressional district announcing the date, time, place, and purpose of the public hearing; and
  (3) Take such other action as may be necessary to bring the public hearing to the attention of the public and to encourage public attendance at and participation in the public hearing.
(c) A member of the State Board of Education shall constitute a committee of one for the purpose of holding a public hearing required by this Code section and, in connection therewith, shall be entitled to receive the per diem and expenses provided for by Code Section 20-2-9.
(d) The costs incurred in holding public hearings required by this Code section shall come from funds appropriated or available to the State Department of Education.
