# § 20-2-2092. Authority to incorporate nonprofit corporation as public foundation; requirements; annual report

(a) The commission shall have the power and authority to incorporate a nonprofit corporation that could qualify as a public foundation under Section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue Code to aid the commission in carrying out any of its powers and accomplishing any of its purposes. A nonprofit corporation created pursuant to this subsection shall be created pursuant to Chapter 3 of Title 14, the "Georgia Nonprofit Corporation Code," and the Secretary of State shall be authorized to accept such filing.
(b) A nonprofit corporation created pursuant to this Code section shall be subject to the following provisions:
  (1) In accordance with the Constitution of Georgia, no governmental functions or regulatory powers shall be conducted by such nonprofit corporation;
  (2) Upon dissolution of such nonprofit corporation incorporated by the commission, any assets shall revert to the commission or to any successor to the commission or, failing such succession, to the State of Georgia;
  (3) As used in this paragraph, the term "direct employee costs" means salary, benefits, and travel expenses. To avoid the appearance of undue influence on regulatory functions by donors, no donations to such nonprofit corporation from private sources shall be used for direct employee costs of the commission;
  (4) Such nonprofit corporation shall be subject to all laws relating to open meetings and the inspection of public records;
  (5) The commission shall not be liable for the action or omission to act of such nonprofit corporation; provided, however, that such nonprofit corporation shall obtain and maintain errors and omissions liability coverage insurance in an amount not less than $1 million; and
  (6) No debts, bonds, notes, or other obligations incurred by such nonprofit corporation shall constitute an indebtedness or obligation of the State of Georgia nor shall any act of such nonprofit corporation constitute or result in the creation of an indebtedness of the state; provided, however, that such nonprofit corporation shall not have the power to incur long-term or short-term indebtedness in connection with its authority under this Code section but may incur short-term credit obligations. No holder or holders of such bonds, notes, or other obligations shall ever have the right to compel any exercise of the taxing power of the state nor to enforce the payment thereof against the state.
(c) Pursuant to this Code section, the commission may establish a nonprofit corporation to be designated as the State Charter Schools Foundation for the sole purpose of actively seeking supplemental revenue and in-kind goods, services, and property to promote state charter schools and any other purpose of the commission. Funds received by the foundation may be awarded through a competitive grant process administered by the commission.
(d) A nonprofit corporation created pursuant to this Code section shall make public and provide an annual report showing the identity of all donors and the amount each person or entity donated as well as all expenditures or other disposal of money or property donated. Such report shall be provided to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairpersons of the House Committee on Education and the Senate Education and Youth Committee. Such nonprofit corporation shall also provide such persons with a copy of all corporate filings with the federal Internal Revenue Service.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 182,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
