# § 20-2-776.2. Stock supply of auto-injectable epinephrine; requirements; limited liability

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Auto-injectable epinephrine" means a disposable drug delivery device that is easily transportable and contains a premeasured single dose of epinephrine used to treat life-threatening allergic reactions.
  (2) "Licensed practitioner" means a physician licensed to practice medicine in this state, an advanced practice registered nurse acting pursuant to the authority of Code Section 43-34-25, and a physician assistant acting pursuant to the authority of subsection (e.1) of Code Section 43-34-103.
(b) A public or private school in this state may acquire and stock a supply of auto-injectable epinephrine pursuant to a prescription issued in accordance with Code Section 26-4-116.1. A public or private school may designate an employee or agent trained in the possession and administration of auto-injectable epinephrine to be responsible for the storage, maintenance, and distribution of the auto-injectable epinephrine stocked by the school.
(c) Any school employee or agent of a public or private school who has completed training or received information in accordance with subsection (c) of Code Section 20-2-776.1 in recognizing the symptoms of anaphylactic shock and the correct method of administering the auto-injectable epinephrine may:
  (1) Provide auto-injectable epinephrine to any student such employee or agent believes in good faith is experiencing an anaphylactic adverse reaction for immediate self-administration; or
  (2) Administer auto-injectable epinephrine to any student such employee or agent believes in good faith is experiencing an anaphylactic adverse reaction in accordance with a standing protocol from the prescribing licensed practitioner, regardless of whether the student has a prescription for auto-injectable epinephrine.
(d) A public or private school may enter into arrangements with manufacturers of approved auto-injectable epinephrine or third-party suppliers of auto-injectable epinephrine to obtain the products free of charge or at fair market or reduced prices.
(e) No later than July 1, 2013, the State Board of Education, in consultation with the Department of Public Health, shall adopt regulations as necessary to implement the provisions of this Code section.
(f)
  (1) Any school personnel who in good faith administers or chooses not to administer epinephrine to a student pursuant to this Code section shall be immune from civil liability for any act or omission to act related to the administration of epinephrine, except that such immunity shall not apply to an act of willful or wanton misconduct.
  (2) Any licensed practitioner who prescribes auto-injectable epinephrine pursuant to Code Section 26-4-116.1 for use by a school in accordance with this Code section shall be immune from civil liability for any act or omission to act related to the administration of such auto-injectable epinephrine, except that such immunity shall not apply to an act of willful or wanton misconduct.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 326,§ 1, eff. 5/7/2013.
