# § 20-2-1017. Review process for locally approved instructional materials and content; public review; application

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "locally approved instructional materials and content" means instructional materials and content, as defined by the State Board of Education pursuant to Code Section 20-2-1010, which constitute the principal source of study for a state funded course, not including supplementary or ancillary material, which is adopted by a local board of education or used by a local school system. Supplementary or ancillary material includes, but is not limited to, articles, online simulations, worksheets, novels, biographies, speeches, videos, music, and similar resources in any medium, including both physical or digital.
(b) Each local board of education shall establish a review and recommendation process for any locally approved instructional materials and content that are adopted or used by the local school system. Such process shall include notice to parents and guardians by the most practical means, which may be accomplished in the same manner as other notices to parents and guardians, and the opportunity for public comment and parental input prior to the adoption or use of any proposed instructional materials and content. As part of such process, the local board of education shall post in a prominent location on its website, and make available for review in print form upon request, a list of proposed instructional materials and content for public review, including the version or edition number, if applicable; the state funded course number for which the instructional resource will be used, if applicable; and the identification number, in accordance with any guidelines established by the State Board of Education.
(c)
  (1) Each local board of education shall make all proposed and locally approved instructional materials and content used by the local school system available for review on site upon request. Each local board of education shall make any supplementary or ancillary material used by the local school system at a school available for review upon request by any parent of a student in the school or who will be matriculating to such school. The local board of education may specify reasonable hours for review.
  (2) Each local board of education shall designate at least one employee to serve as the contact person for any inquiries related to or requests for review of locally approved instructional materials and content and supplementary or ancillary material and to coordinate its efforts to comply with and carry out its responsibilities under this Code section.
(d) In addition, each local school system and each school which maintains a website shall post in a prominent location on such website a list of the locally approved instructional materials and content that are used by such school system or school. For each locally approved instructional resource, such list shall include the version or edition number, if applicable; the state funded course number for which the instructional resource will be used, if applicable; and the identification number, in accordance with any guidelines established by the State Board of Education.
(e) This Code section shall be effective July 1, 2017, and shall apply beginning with the 2017-2018 school year and thereafter.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 523,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2017.
