# § 20-2-2096.4. Governing board; membership; meetings and procedures

(a) Each completion special school shall be governed by a governing board which shall be responsible for the school level governance of such school; provided, however, that the day-to-day management and operations of such school shall be delegated to the school superintendent.
(b)
  (1)
    (A) The superintendent of each local school system that is a party to a collaborative operating agreement with the completion special school shall serve as an ex officio member of such school's governing board.
    (B)
      (i) Subject to the provisions of divisions (ii) and (iii) of this subparagraph, the members of each completion special school's governing board shall elect from among themselves five members to be voting members of such governing board.
      (ii) If fewer than five local school systems are a party to a collaborative operating agreement with the completion special school, then the superintendents of each such local school system shall serve as voting members of such school's governing board.
      (iii) The governing board of each completion special school provided for in division (a)(2)(A)(i) of Code Section 20-2-2096.2 shall convene by January 15, 2024, to elect the voting members of such governing board who shall, thereupon, elect a chairperson.
    (C) The voting members of each completion special school's governing board shall serve staggered terms of two years concurrent with school years beginning July 1 and ending June 30; provided, however, that voting members shall serve until their successors are elected. The state board shall adopt rules and regulations necessary to provide for such terms, including, but not limited to, rules and regulations for the initial terms of each completion special school's governing board to accomplish the required staggering of terms, except as provided in subparagraph (D) of this paragraph. A voting member may serve multiple terms.
    (D) The voting members of each completion special school's governing board shall elect a chairperson from among themselves. The first chairperson shall serve an initial term ending June 30 of the year following his or her election, and each successive chairperson shall serve terms of two years concurrent with school years beginning July 1 and ending June 30; provided, however, that chairpersons shall serve until their successors are elected. A chairperson may serve multiple terms.
  (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (c) of Code Section 20-2-51, a local school superintendent who is qualified to serve on the governing board of a completion special school pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not be disqualified from such service due to an immediate family member serving as a principal, assistant principal, or on the administrative staff of such school; provided, however, that such local school superintendent shall be permitted to designate another official from his or her local school system to serve on such governing board in his or her place.
(c) The state board shall adopt rules and regulations to provide for the filling of vacancies on the governing boards of completion special schools.
(d) The governing board of each completion special school shall meet quarterly at such dates and times as it may by resolution provide and may hold additional meetings upon the call of the chairperson or the written request of a majority of the members of the governing board. A simple majority of the voting members of the governing board shall constitute a quorum. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (f) and (g) of Code Section 50-14-1, the governing boards of completion special schools shall be authorized to conduct meetings by teleconference; provided, however, that any such meeting is conducted in substantial compliance with the provisions of Chapter 14 of Title 50.
(e) The members of each completion special school governing board shall participate in initial training for boards of newly established completion special schools and annual training thereafter, conducted or approved by the state board. The state board shall provide for or approve such initial and annual training. The training shall include, but not be limited to, best practices on school level governance, the constitutional and statutory requirements relating to public records and meetings, and the requirements of applicable statutes and rules and regulations. The training shall also include two to three hours annually regarding sound fiscal management and monitoring the implementation of the budget in accordance with state laws and regulations which includes the following elements:
  (1) Governing board developed policies to ensure sound fiscal management, including, but not limited to, balanced budget requirements, spending level authorizations and permissions, deficit spending restrictions, establishment of special funds, and reserve maintenance requirements;
  (2) Holding the school superintendent accountable for the implementation of the budget in a manner consistent with the school's strategic plan;
  (3) Establishing, through policy, the level of spending beyond the budget for which the school superintendent must seek board approval;
  (4) Monitoring the school's audits, monthly financial reports, and additional financial reports needed to make informed decisions and to ensure execution of the budget in a manner consistent with the strategic plan and strategic goals of the school;
  (5) Reviewing and addressing annually audited financial records and audit findings, with a goal of proactively preventing audit exceptions;
  (6) Addressing fiscal matters in a manner consistent with state law, sound business practice, and ethical principles regarding conflicts of interest; and
  (7) Operating in a manner such that the governing board's financial decisions and actions do not provide unfair financial or other opportunistic advantages to any member of the governing board, their family members, associates, or individual constituents.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 342,§ 3, eff. 5/4/2023.
