# § 20-2-1184. Reporting of students committing prohibited acts

(a) Any teacher or other person employed at any public or private elementary or secondary school or any dean or public safety officer employed by a college or university who has reasonable cause to believe that a student at that school has committed any act upon school property or at any school function, which act is prohibited by Code Section 16-5-21 or 16-5-24, Chapter 6 of Title 16, and Code Section 16-11-127, 16-11-127.1, 16-11-132, or 16-13-30, shall immediately report the act and the name of the student to the principal or president of that school or the principal's or president's designee; provided, however, that an act which is prohibited by Code Section 16-11-127.1 shall be reported only when it involves a:
  (1) Firearm, as defined in Code Section 16-11-131;
  (2) Dangerous weapon or machine gun, as defined in Code Section 16-11-121; or
  (3) Weapon, as defined in Code Section 16-11-127.1, together with an assault.
(b) The principal or designee who receives a report made pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section who has reasonable cause to believe that the report is valid shall make an oral report thereof immediately by telephone or otherwise to the appropriate school system superintendent and to the appropriate police authority and district attorney.
(c) Any person participating in the making of a report or causing a report to be made as authorized or required pursuant to this Code section or participating in any judicial proceeding or any other proceeding resulting therefrom shall in so doing be immune from any civil or criminal liability that might otherwise be incurred or imposed, providing such participation pursuant to this Code section is made in good faith.
(d) Any person required to make a report pursuant to this Code section who knowingly and willfully fails to do so shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 100,§ 11, eff. 5/6/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 575,§ 2-11, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 643,§ 2-12, eff. 6/4/2010.
