# § 20-2-740. Annual report by local boards of education regarding disciplinary and placement actions; annual study by Department of Education

(a) Each local board of education shall file an annual report, by August 1 of each year, with the Department of Education regarding disciplinary and placement actions taken during the prior school year. Such report shall classify the types of actions into the following categories:
  (1) Actions in which a student was assigned to in-school suspension;
  (2) Actions in which a student was suspended for a period of ten days or less;
  (3) Actions in which a student was suspended for a period of more than ten days but not beyond the current school quarter or semester;
  (4) Actions in which a student was expelled beyond the current school quarter or semester but not permanently expelled;
  (5) Actions in which a student was permanently expelled;
  (6) Actions in which a student was placed in an alternative educational setting;
  (7) Actions in which a student was suspended from riding the bus;
  (8) Actions in which corporal punishment was administered; and
  (9) Actions in which a student was removed from class pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-738.
(b) For each category of disciplinary or placement action listed in paragraphs (1) through (9) of subsection (a) of this Code section, the local board shall provide the following information: the number of students subject to the type of disciplinary or placement action; the age and grade level of such students; such students' race and gender; and the number of students subject to the type of disciplinary action who were eligible for free or reduced price lunches under federal guidelines. For each action listed in paragraph (9) of subsection (a) of this Code section, the local board shall also provide information regarding the decisions of placement review committees and the disciplinary and placement decisions made by principals or their designees. The data required by this Code section shall be reported separately for each school within the local school system and collected and reported in compliance with the requirements of 20 U.S.C. Sections 1232g and 1232h.
(c) The Department of Education shall conduct a study for each school year based upon the statistical data filed by local boards pursuant to this Code section for the purpose of determining trends in discipline. The department shall also utilize existing demographic data on school personnel as needed to establish trends in discipline. Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to authorize the public release of personally identifiable information regarding students or school personnel. The department shall prepare a report for the General Assembly on the study annually and notify the members of the General Assembly of the availability of the report in the manner which it deems to be most effective and efficient.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 333,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2005.
