# § 20-2-2096.1. Definitions

(1) "Collaborative operating agreement" means an agreement between a local board of education and a completion special school to provide for education programs and services focused on dropout recovery and prevention or high school credit recovery for students in grades nine through 12 residing in the local school system represented by such local board.
(2) "Completion special school" means a special school provided for in this article which meets the requirements provided in Code Section 20-2-2096.3.
(3) "Completion special school governing board" or "governing board" means the board for a completion special school as provided for in Code Section 20-2-2096.4.
(4) "Department" means the Department of Education.
(5) "Dropout" means an individual who previously dropped out of school according to the uniform definition of "dropout" provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 20-14-33.
(6) "Enrollment eligible student" means:
  (A) An individual 18 years of age or older who is eligible for enrollment in appropriate education programs as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 20-2-150, who meets the definition of dropout provided in paragraph (5) of this Code section, and who is not currently enrolled in a public school in this state; or
  (B) An individual who is attending a United States Department of Defense Youth Challenge Academy or who is in the custody of a correctional facility, detention facility, jail, prison, or other lawful place of confinement for the period of such attendance or custody.
(7) "Local board" means a county or independent board of education exercising control and management of a local school system pursuant to Article VIII, Section V, Paragraph II of the Constitution.
(8) "Local school system" means the system of public schools established and maintained by a local board within its limits pursuant to Article VIII, Section V, Paragraph I of the Constitution.
(9) "Program student" means a student who attends a completion special school pursuant to a current collaborative operating agreement between such school and the student's resident school system but who is not enrolled in such school. Such term does not include enrollment eligible students.
(10) "QBE formula earnings" means funds earned for the Quality Basic Education Formula pursuant to Code Section 20-2-161 and shall include the portion of such funds that are calculated as the local five mill share in accordance with Code Section 20-2-164. QBE formula earnings shall include the salary portion of direct instructional costs, the adjustment for training and experience, the nonsalary portion of direct instructional costs, and earnings for psychologists and school social workers, school administration, facility maintenance and operation, media centers, additional days of instruction in accordance with Code Section 20-2-184.1, and staff development, as determined by the department.
(11) "Resident school system" means the local school system in which a program student attending a completion special school is enrolled.
(12) "School level governance" means final decision-making authority in personnel decisions, financial decisions, curriculum, resource allocation, establishing and monitoring the achievement of school improvement goals, and school operations.
(13) "Special school" means a public school whose creation is authorized pursuant to Article VIII, Section V, Paragraph VII of the Constitution.
(14) "State board" means the State Board of Education.
(15) "System-collaborative state charter school" means a charter school previously authorized by the State Charter Schools Commission pursuant to Article 31A of this chapter that, until or before June 30, 2021, provided programs and services for dropout recovery or high school credit recovery.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 342,§ 3, eff. 5/4/2023.
