# § 20-2-989.7. Matters not subject to complaint; appeal process for certain educators

(a)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the performance ratings contained in personnel evaluations conducted pursuant to Code Section 20-2-210, professional development plans, and job performance shall not be subject to complaint under the provisions of this part; provided, however, that this shall not apply to procedural deficiencies on the part of the local school system or charter school in conducting an evaluation pursuant to Code Section 20-2-210.
  (2) For teachers who have accepted a school year contract for the fourth or subsequent consecutive school year, summative performance ratings of "Unsatisfactory" or "Ineffective" contained in personnel evaluations conducted pursuant to Code Section 20-2-210, procedural deficiencies on the part of the local school system or charter school in conducting an evaluation pursuant to Code Section 20-2-210, and job performance shall be subject to appeal pursuant to this paragraph. Local units of administration shall establish an appeals policy that shall allow a teacher to appeal a summative performance rating of "Unsatisfactory" or "Ineffective." Such appeals policy shall include a method and reasonable timelines for filing an appeal that minimize the burden on both parties, a statement that a teacher shall not be the subject of any reprisal as a result of filing an appeal pursuant to this paragraph, a provision that an appeal hearing may be conducted by an independent third party or by an administrator in the system office on behalf of the school official or local unit of administration, and a method to receive the decision of the independent third party or system administrator. Should any reprisal occur, the teacher may refer the matter to the Professional Standards Commission. Each local unit of administration shall submit a copy of its appeals policy established pursuant to this paragraph to the Department of Education no later than July 1, 2021, and any time thereafter if material changes are made to such policy.
  (3) The termination, nonrenewal, demotion, suspension, or reprimand of any employee, as set forth in Code Section 20-2-940, and the revocation, suspension, or denial of certificates of any employee, as set forth in Code Section 20-2-984.5, shall not be subject to complaint under the provisions of this part.
(b) A certified employee who chooses to appeal under Code Section 20-2-1160 shall be barred from pursuing the same complaint under this part.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 546,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 389,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 529,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 336,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2014.
