# § 20-2-880. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Board of Community Health established under Chapter 2 of Title 31.
(2) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of community health established under Chapter 2 of Title 31.
(3) "Local employer" means the county or independent board of education, a charter school, regional and county libraries, and the governing authority of Georgia Military College.
(4) "Public school teacher," "teacher," and "employee" mean and include any person employed not less than half time in a professionally certificated capacity or position in the public school systems of this state. The terms also mean and include librarians and other personnel employed not less than 30 hours per week by regional and county libraries; personnel employed by the high school program of Georgia Military College; and any professionally certificated person who has acquired ten years or more of creditable service and who is being paid retirement benefits by the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia, Chapter 3 of Title 47, or by any other public school teacher retirement system in this state. Such terms shall also mean and include any person employed not less than half time and compensated in a professionally certificated capacity or position in a charter school in this state established pursuant to either Article 31 or Article 31A of this chapter if such charter school elects to participate in the health insurance plan established pursuant to this subpart upon initial approval of its charter or, if such charter school is an existing charter school, upon renewal of its charter, upon notice by the health insurance plan provided in this part, or upon the expiration of its current health care plan. Such terms shall not be deemed to include any emergency or temporary employee. Notwithstanding this definition or any other provision of this subpart, the board may, by regulation, make available to employees who work 17 1/2 hours or more per week such benefits as are required to be made available to such employees by regulations of the United States Internal Revenue Service or any other federal authority.
(5) "Qualified entity" means any person, association, corporation, or other legal entity with which the board is authorized under Article 1 of Chapter 18 of Title 45, relating to state employees' health insurance, to enter into contract.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 158,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 375,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2020.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 498,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-7, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 572,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 20, eff. 2/12/2001.
