# § 20-2-771.1. Provision of information on Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes along with other health information

(a) If a local board of education provides information on immunizations, infectious diseases, medications, or other school health issues to parents and guardians of students in grades six through 12, then the following information about Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes shall be included:
  (1) A description of Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes;
  (2) A description of the risk factors and warning signs associated with Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes;
  (3) A recommendation to the parent or guardian of those students displaying warning signs associated with Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes that such parent or guardian consult with the student's primary care provider to determine if immediate screening for Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes is appropriate;
  (4) A description of the screening processes for both Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes and of the significance of the stages of Type 1 diabetes; and
  (5) A recommendation that, following a Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes diagnosis, the parent or guardian consult with the student's primary care provider to develop an appropriate treatment plan.
(b) The Department of Education, in cooperation with the Department of Public Health, shall develop and make available the information about Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes to local school systems as required under subsection (a) of this Code section in an efficient manner that shall include posting the information on its public website.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 551,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Repealed by 2012 Ga. Laws 619,§ 35, eff. 7/1/2012.
