# § 20-2-171. Minimum direct classroom expenditures; waivers; sanctions for noncompliance; submission of budget and expenditure information; rules and regulations

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Direct classroom expenditures" means all expenditures by a local school system during a fiscal year for activities directly associated with the interaction between teachers and students, including, but not limited to, salaries and benefits for teachers and paraprofessionals; costs for instructional materials and supplies; costs associated with classroom related activities, such as field trips, physical education, music, and arts; and tuition paid to out-of-state school districts and private institutions for special needs students. This term shall not include costs for administration, plant operations and maintenance, food services, transportation, instructional support including media centers, teacher training, and student support such as nurses and school counselors.
  (2) "Total operating expenditures" means all operating expenditures by a local school system during a fiscal year, including expenditures from federal, state, and local funds and from any other funds received by a local school system, such as student activity fees. This term shall not include capital outlay expenditures, debt or bond payments, interest on debt or bonds, facility leases, or rental payments. This term shall also not include any costs which are incurred by a local school system to comply with any mandate by statute or by the Georgia Department of Education effective on or after January 1, 2006, to add specific nonclassroom staff positions.
(b) Beginning with fiscal year 2008:
  (1) Each local school system shall spend a minimum of 65 percent of its total operating expenditures on direct classroom expenditures, except as otherwise provided in this subsection;
  (2) For any fiscal year in which a local school system has direct classroom expenditures that are less than 65 percent of its total operating expenditures, the local school system shall be required to increase its direct classroom expenditures by a minimum of 2 percent per fiscal year as a percentage of total operating expenditures, beginning in the subsequent fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter, until it reaches 65 percent. For fiscal year 2008, the baseline year from which the required increase will be determined shall be based on expenditure data from fiscal year 2007;
  (3) A local school system that has direct classroom expenditures that are less than 65 percent of its total operating expenditures and that is unable to meet the expenditure requirements in paragraph (2) of this subsection may apply to the State Board of Education for a one-year renewable achievement waiver. The waiver request must include evidence that the local school system is exceeding the state averages in academic categories designated by the board, which may include, but not be limited to, end-of-grade assessments, end-of-course assessments, and the SAT, a plan for obtaining compliance with this Code section, and any other information required at the discretion of the board; and
  (4) A local school system that has direct classroom expenditures that are less than 65 percent of its total operating expenditures and that is unable to meet the expenditure requirements in paragraph (2) of this subsection may apply to the State Board of Education for a one-year renewable hardship waiver. Waivers granted pursuant to this paragraph shall be limited to extreme situations in which such situation is solely responsible for the local school system's inability to meet the expenditure requirements. Such situations may include, but are not limited to, acts of God and inordinate unexpected increases in energy and fuel costs. The waiver request must include revenue and expenditure reports and specific details providing compelling evidence as to the impact that the intervening extreme situation had on the local school system's ability to comply with expenditure requirements and any other information required at the discretion of the board.
(c) The State Board of Education shall have the authority to impose sanctions against a local school system that fails to comply with the provisions of this Code section or any rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to subsection (e) of this Code section. Such sanctions shall be at the discretion of the board and may include, but not be limited to, requiring the local school system to devise and implement a plan to meet the expenditure requirements of this Code section in the subsequent fiscal year or withholding all or any portion of state funds in accordance with Code Section 20-2-243.
(d) The State Board of Education shall be authorized to require the submission of budget information and expenditure data from local school systems for the purposes of verifying compliance with this Code section.
(e) The State Board of Education shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to implement the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 14,§ 3, eff. 3/30/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 335,§ 33, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 20, eff. 4/14/2009.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 446,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
