# § 20-2-692.1. Excused absences for days missed to visit with parent or legal guardian in the military prior to deployment or while on leave; attendance at military affairs sponsored events

(a) A student whose parent or legal guardian is in military service in the armed forces of the United States or the National Guard, and such parent or legal guardian has been called to duty for or is on leave from overseas deployment to a combat zone or combat support posting, shall be granted excused absences, up to a maximum of five school days per school year, for the day or days missed from school to visit with his or her parent or legal guardian prior to such parent's or legal guardian's deployment or during such parent's or legal guardian's leave.
(b) A student whose parent or legal guardian is currently serving or previously served on active duty in the armed forces of the United States, in the Reserves of the armed forces of the United States on extended active duty, or in the National Guard on extended active duty may be granted excused absences, up to a maximum of five school days per school year, not to exceed two school years, for the day or days missed from school to attend military affairs sponsored events, provided the student provides documentation prior to absence from:
  (1) A provider of care at or sponsored by a medical facility of the United States Department of Veterans Affairs; or
  (2) An event sponsored by a corporation exempt from taxation under Section 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require a local school system to revise any policies relating to maximum number of excused and unexcused absences for any purposes.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 332,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 625,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
