# § 20-2-306. Honors program; residential high school program

(a) The Office of Student Achievement is authorized to continue and administer an honors program for students in the public and private high schools of this state and for resident students who attend a home study program who have manifested exceptional abilities or unique potentials or who have made exceptional academic achievements. This program shall be conducted during summer months between normal school year terms at institutions of higher learning or other appropriate centers within this state with facilities adequate to provide challenging opportunities for advanced study and accomplishments by such students. The student honors program shall be implemented and operated in accordance with criteria established by the Office of Student Achievement, and operating costs shall be paid by the Office of Student Achievement from funds made available for this purpose by the General Assembly. The Office of Student Achievement is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia for operating and sharing the costs of such programs.
(b) The State Board of Education is authorized to inaugurate and operate a residential high school program for highly gifted and talented youth of this state. This residential high school program shall consist only of students in the eleventh and twelfth grades. Enrollment shall be by student application and on a voluntary basis; provided, however, that the parent or legal guardian of each student must have signed an agreement authorizing enrollment in this program. This program shall be operated during the normal school year for a minimum of 180 days, or the equivalent thereof as determined in accordance with State Board of Education guidelines, in cooperation with one or more of the state universities or colleges from funds provided by the General Assembly. The state board is authorized to enter into cooperative agreements with the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia concerning the operation and sharing of costs of this program. The state board shall prescribe policy, regulations, standards, and criteria as needed for the effective operation of this program.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 241,§ 26, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 118,§ 4, eff. 5/4/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 24,§ 1, eff. 4/21/2009.
