# § 20-2-319.7. Instruction in lifeguarding and aquatic safety

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "psychomotor skills" means skills using hands-on practice to support cognitive learning.
(b) Beginning in the 2026-2027 school year, each local board of education which operates a school with grades nine through 12 may provide instruction in lifeguarding and aquatic safety.
(c) No later than January 1, 2026, the State Board of Education shall adopt content standards for such course, including objectives, reading materials, lesson plans, psychomotor skills requirements, and testing.
(d) Local boards of education may establish a curriculum for instruction in lifeguarding and aquatic safety, including but not limited to objectives, reading materials, lesson plans, psychomotor skills requirements, and testing.
(e) Such curriculum shall include one or more of the following and shall incorporate into the instruction the psychomotor skills necessary for lifeguarding and aquatic safety:
  (1) An instructional program developed by the American Red Cross;
  (2) An instructional program developed by the American Lifeguard Association;
  (3) An instructional program developed by StarGuard ELITE;
  (4) An instructional program developed by Stop Drowning Now; or
  (5) An instructional program which is nationally recognized and is based on the most current national evidence based lifeguarding and aquatic safety guidelines.
(f) Local boards of education that provide instruction in lifeguarding and aquatic safety shall ensure such curriculum provides sufficient training to enable students to be qualified to work as lifeguards in this state upon successful completion of the curriculum.
(g) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require students to become certified in lifeguarding and aquatic safety; provided, however, that, if a local board of education chooses to offer courses which result in certification being earned, such courses shall be taught by instructors in lifeguarding and aquatic safety authorized to conduct such an instructional program under subsection (e) of this Code section.
(h) Local school systems and public schools may be allowed to partner with other governmental entities, charitable entities, community organizations, and private businesses in this state to provide access to aquatic training facilities for purposes of completing the curriculum.
(i) On and after July 1, 2026, for the purpose of earning Carnegie unit curriculum credits at the high school level, satisfactory completion of a course in lifeguarding and aquatic safety may be accepted by the State Board of Education for one-half unit of elective credit for any student; provided, however, that such courses are taught in strict compliance with this Code section.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 414,§ 1, eff. 4/22/2024.
