# § 20-2-64. Establishment and maintenance of trusts or funds

(a) Each local board of education is authorized to establish and maintain one or more funds or trusts for the purposes specified in this Code section and to designate one or more fund managers or trustees thereof. Each local board of education shall be deemed to be a person for the purposes of Chapter 12 of Title 53, known as "The Revised Georgia Trust Code of 2010," and may take any action which a natural person would be authorized to take and shall be subject to any duty imposed upon a natural person by the provisions of such chapter, except as provided in this Code section.
(b) A local board of education shall appoint one or more managers or trustees for any separate fund or trust, respectively, created pursuant to the authority of this Code section and shall not act as trustee or manager of such a trust or fund.
(c) A local board of education is authorized to accept and pay over to or place in such trust or fund any gifts, grants, bequests, and transfers of real or personal property and money made for the furtherance of such trust's or fund's purposes, as set forth in subsection (d) of this Code section. No funds or property of the local board of education derived from tax revenues or state grants or appropriations shall be placed in any such trust or fund or expended for the administration of such trust or fund.
(d) Trust or fund property and the income therefrom may be expended, unless otherwise restricted by the donor thereof, for:
  (1) Scholarships, grants, loans, and other educational assistance programs for students or graduates, or both, of the school system;
  (2) Matching any matching grant given to such trust or fund or to the local board of education;
  (3) Any purpose specified by the donor of such trust property, unless limited by subsection (e) of this Code section;
  (4) Any other educational purpose; or
  (5) The cost of administering the trust.
(e) Any such trust or fund shall be established under such further terms and conditions as may be deemed appropriate by the local board of education from time to time to the extent consistent with the uses of funds and purposes described in subsection (d) of this Code section. The local board of education, manager, or trustee may refuse to accept any gift, grant, bequest, or transfer which:
  (1) Contains any condition, restriction, or limitation that may jeopardize the tax exempt status of such trust or fund for federal or state income tax purposes;
  (2) Would cause the trust or fund to be treated as a private foundation under Section 509 or any corresponding provision of the Internal Revenue Code, as amended; or
  (3) Contains any condition, restriction, or limitation deemed by the local board of education, fund manager, or trustee to be inconsistent with the purposes, terms, or conditions of such fund or trust.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2010.
