# § 20-2-204. Paraprofessional and permitted personnel; classification of all certified or permitted personnel

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Paraprofessional" is defined as a person who may have less than professional-level certification, who relates in role and function to a professional and does a portion of the professional's job or tasks under the supervision of the professional, and whose decision-making authority is limited and regulated by the professional. Such a paraprofessional shall possess the minimum of a high school diploma or a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma. If assigned to positions governed by federal regulations, the paraprofessional must meet specified federal hiring requirements.
  (2) "Permitted personnel" is defined as persons who may not qualify for professional certificates, including retired teachers, but who function in the educational programs in the same manner as certificated personnel. Such personnel qualify for their positions on the basis of experience rather than formal education.
(b) The Professional Standards Commission shall provide for the classification of all certified and permitted personnel employed in the public schools of this state, and no such personnel shall be employed in the public schools of this state unless they meet such minimum criteria as developed by the commission; provided, however, that such classifications shall be based only upon academic, technical, and professional training and experience of such personnel. The commission is authorized to provide for revoking or denying a certificate or permit for good cause after an investigation is conducted and notice and hearing is provided the certificate or permit holder.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 726,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 107, § 3, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 20, eff. 2/12/2001.
