# § 20-2-1126. Written policies and procedures for operation of school buses; receipt of code of conduct by students; acknowledgement by parent or guardian

(a) Each public school system in this state shall promulgate policies and procedures for the operation of school buses and the conduct and safety of those students who ride such buses. Such policies and procedures shall be in writing and available for public inspection. Each person employed as a school bus driver shall acknowledge in writing that he or she has received a copy of and has read and understands such policies and procedures. In the event that such policies and procedures are amended during the school year, such amended policies and procedures shall be provided to all persons employed by the school system as school bus drivers, and each such person shall acknowledge in writing that he or she has received a copy of and has read and understands such amended policies and procedures.
(b) At the beginning of each school year, each public school system in this state shall provide each of its students with a copy of the school system's code of conduct as required by Code Section 20-2-736. In the event such code of conduct is amended during the school year, the school system shall provide copies of such amendments to the students. The receipt of such student code of conduct shall be acknowledged in writing by a parent or guardian of each student.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 20, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 560, § 6, eff. 7/1/2004.
