# § 20-2-736. Student codes of conduct; distribution; disciplinary action for violations; parental involvement

(a) At the beginning of each school year, local boards of education shall provide for the distribution of student codes of conduct developed pursuant to Code Section 20-2-735 to each student upon enrollment. Local boards of education shall provide for the distribution of such student codes of conduct to the parents or guardians of each student through such means as may best accomplish such distribution at the local level and are appropriate in light of the grade level of the student, including distribution of student codes of conduct to students and parents or guardians jointly. Local boards of education shall solicit or require the signatures or confirmation of receipt of students and parents or guardians in acknowledgment of the receipt of such student codes of conduct. A signature or confirmation of receipt may be obtained in writing, via electronic mail or facsimile, or by any other electronic or other means as designated by the local board. A parent or legal guardian that does not acknowledge receipt of the student code of conduct shall not be absolved of any responsibility with respect to the information contained in the student code of conduct. In addition, student codes of conduct shall be available in each school and classroom.
(b) Local boards of education shall provide for disciplinary action against students who violate student codes of conduct.
(c) Local boards of education shall provide opportunities for parental involvement in developing and updating student codes of conduct.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 819,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2006.
