# § 45-2-41. Committee of doctors to develop fitness standards; licensed physician to make physical examination; contracts for assessments of employees; fee for committee members and consultants; certification

(a) The commissioner of administrative services, subject to the approval of the State Personnel Board, shall appoint up to five doctors of medicine licensed by the state and other specialists, as appropriate, to develop standards of medical and physical fitness required for persons about to be appointed to positions in the state service. Such standards shall be related to the duties required of specific positions in the state service. The commissioner of administrative services shall develop the forms to secure the information needed to determine if prospective employees meet the medical and physical fitness standards required to perform the essential functions of the relevant position.
(b) If a physical examination is required by the standards of medical and physical fitness, a licensed medical practitioner may perform the assessment and report the findings to a physician in the employ of or under contract with the state or respective employing department. The licensed medical practitioner may be of the applicant's choice and at the applicant's expense or may be a licensed physician in the employ of or under contract with the state or respective employing department. When the licensed physician is in the employ of or under contract with the state or respective employing department, the assessment and findings shall be made to the respective department and shall be final, except as provided in the State Personnel Board rules.
(c) The commissioner of administrative services may, through a competitive proposal process, enter into an agreement on behalf of the departments to contract with medical practitioners for the purpose of conducting assessments for medical and physical fitness as required by the standards of medical and physical fitness. In such case, each department may use the selected contractor as an expense of a departmental employee selection process or may recommend that prospective employees seek the examination at the contractor's site at the prospective employee's expense. If the prospective employee chooses to use a medical practitioner other than one selected by the department or under contract with the state on behalf of the department, the findings and recommendations of such other practitioner shall be furnished to the medical practitioner selected by the department or under contract with the state on behalf of the department for final determination of the medical and physical fitness of the prospective employee. Expenses for the medical practitioner under contract with the state on behalf of the department shall be paid by the respective employing department based upon the services provided by such medical practitioner.
(d) The State Personnel Board is authorized to establish a fee and make payment of same to the consultants appointed by the commissioner of administrative services for services rendered in the development of standards of medical and physical fitness for state employees; provided, however, that no state employee shall receive additional compensation for services as a consultant for developing the standards of medical and physical fitness.
(e) The certification required by Code Section 45-2-40 shall be completed as required in the rules of the State Personnel Board; provided, however, that if a physical examination is required by the standards for medical and physical fitness, the physical examination shall be completed prior to the date of appointment, and the reporting of results shall occur within a prescribed number of calendar days from the date of appointment.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-67, eff. 7/1/2012.
