# § 10-1-910. Legislative findings

(1) The privacy and financial security of individuals is increasingly at risk due to the ever more widespread collection of personal information by both the private and public sectors;
(2) Credit card transactions, magazine subscriptions, real estate records, automobile registrations, consumer surveys, warranty registrations, credit reports, and internet websites are all sources of personal information and form the source material for identity thieves;
(3) Identity theft is one of the fastest growing crimes committed in this state. Criminals who steal personal information such as social security numbers use the information to open credit card accounts, write bad checks, buy cars, purchase property, and commit other financial crimes with other people's identities;
(4) Implementation of technology security plans and security software as part of an information security policy may provide protection to consumers and the general public from identity thieves;
(5) Information brokers should clearly define the standards for authorized users of its data so that a breach by an unauthorized user is easily identifiable;
(6) Identity theft is costly to the marketplace and to consumers; and
(7) Victims of identity theft must act quickly to minimize the damage; therefore, expeditious notification of unauthorized acquisition and possible misuse of a person's personal information is imperative.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 163,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
