# § 10-1-598. Requirements of contracts of membership; effect of noncompliance

(a) A copy of every contract shall be delivered to the member at the time the contract is signed.
(b) Every contract must be in writing, must be signed by the member, must designate the date on which the member signed the contract, and must state, clearly and conspicuously in boldface type of a minimum size of 14 points, the following: "MEMBER'S RIGHT TO CANCELIf you wish to cancel this contract, you may cancel by delivering or mailing a written notice to the club. To prove that you canceled, it is recommended that you send the notice by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery. The notice must say that you do not wish to be bound by the contract and must be delivered or mailed before 12:00 Midnight of the third business day after you sign this contract. The notice must be delivered or mailed to: ___(insert name and mailing address of club)___. If you cancel, the club will return, within ten days of the date on which you give notice of cancellation, a total refund. It is recommended that you mail the notice of cancellation by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested; check with your post office as to the time when you will be able to mail a certified letter. Be sure to keep a photocopy of the notice of cancellation which you mail."
(c) Every contract which does not contain the notice specified in subsection (b) of this Code section may be canceled by the member at any time, without liability, by giving notice of cancellation by any means. Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to require that a member's cancellation notice be sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery in order to effect a cancellation.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 187,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2015.
