# § 10-1-221. [Effective 1/1/2026] Administration; electric vehicle charging station inspectors; cooperation with other agencies

(a) The administration of this article shall be vested in the Commissioner of Agriculture.
(b) The Commissioner shall be authorized to employ, in accordance with Chapter 20 of Title 45, electric vehicle charging station inspectors to enforce this article. Such inspectors shall be allowed expenses to be approved by the Commissioner. There shall be allowed such further sums for the purchase of equipment, supplies, and clerical help and to pay any other expenses incident to and necessary for the enforcement of this article as may hereafter be appropriated.
(c) The Commissioner shall be authorized to require electric vehicle charging station inspectors to be bonded for the faithful performance of their duties at the expense of the department if and to the extent such Commissioner deems it necessary for the proper protection of the state and the public.
(d) The Commissioner shall be authorized to appoint and employ investigators who shall have, in any case that there is reason to believe a violation of this article has occurred or is about to occur, the right and power to serve subpoenas and to swear out and execute search warrants and arrest warrants.
(e) The Commissioner may promulgate such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the provisions of this article, necessary for the administration and enforcement of this article. Such rules and regulations shall take into consideration and provide for consistency with any rules and regulations of the National Institute for Standards and Technology of the United States Department of Commerce. Such rules and regulations shall be promulgated in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(f) The Commissioner and the Department of Revenue shall be authorized to share information necessary to efficiently administer and enforce the provisions of this article and Article 1 of Chapter 9 of Title 48, the "Motor Fuel Tax Law." Any confidential information furnished pursuant to this Code section shall retain its character as confidential and privileged information. Any person who divulges confidential information obtained pursuant to this Code section shall be subject to the same penalties as provided under Code Section 48-7-61 for unlawful divulgence of confidential tax information.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 588,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 248,§ 2-2, eff. 1/1/2026.
