# § 10-1-931. Definitions

(1) "Commercial recording or audiovisual work" means a recording or audiovisual work:
  (A) Consisting of substantially all of such recording or audiovisual work; and
  (B) Whose owner, assignee, authorized agent, or licensee has disseminated or intends to disseminate for sale, for rental, or for performance or exhibition to the public, regardless of whether a commercial advantage or private financial gain is sought or the person disseminating it owns a license of such recording or audiovisual work.
(2) "Electronic dissemination" or "electronically disseminates" means initiating a transmission of, making available, or otherwise offering a commercial recording or audiovisual work for distribution, display, or performance through the internet or other digital network, regardless of whether such commercial recording or audiovisual work has been previously electronically disseminated by another person.
(3) "Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, unincorporated association, or any other legal or commercial entity.
(4) "Third-party commercial recording" means a commercial recording not belonging to the owner of a website or online service that electronically disseminates it.
(5) "Website" means a set of related web pages served from a single web domain. Such term shall not include a home page or channel page for the user account of a person who is not the owner or operator of the website upon which such user home page or channel page appears.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 744,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
