# § 10-1-811. Definitions

(1) "Consumer" means a purchaser, other than for purposes of resale, of a new farm tractor, a person to whom the new farm tractor is transferred for the same purposes during the duration of an express warranty applicable to the farm tractor, and any other person entitled by the terms of the warranty to enforce the terms of the warranty. In the case of an agricultural vehicle within the warranty period, the sale must be made through an authorized farm tractor dealer.
(2) "Farm tractor" means any self-propelled vehicle which is designed primarily for pulling or propelling agricultural machinery and implements and is used principally in the occupation or business of farming, including an implement of husbandry that is self-propelled, excluding forestry equipment and equipment designed primarily for construction purposes.
(3) "Manufacturer" means a person engaged in the business of manufacturing, assembling, or distributing farm tractors who, under normal business conditions during the year, manufactures, assembles, or distributes to dealers at least ten new farm tractors.
(4) "Manufacturer's express warranty" or "warranty" means the written warranty of the manufacturer of a new farm tractor of its condition and fitness for use, including any terms or conditions precedent to the enforcement of obligations under that warranty.
(5) "Nonconformity" means any condition of the farm tractor that makes it impossible to use for the purpose for which it was designed or manufactured.
(6) "Reasonable allowance for prior use" means the number of field hours performed by the farm equipment, divided by eight field hours per day, multiplied by 50 percent of the daily reasonable rental rate, referenced by model, in the most current North American Equipment Dealers Association Official Guide.
