# § 10-1-224. [Effective 1/1/2026] Inspection of stations; seal of accurate stations; condemnation of inaccurate stations; secrete manipulation prohibited; regulatory authority

(a) Electric vehicle charging station inspectors shall inspect all electric vehicle charging stations located in the territory assigned to them.
(b) All electric vehicle charging stations found to be giving accurate measure of the amount of electricity delivered within the tolerance established by regulations of the Commissioner shall have the electric vehicle charging station sealed with an official seal applied by an inspector duly authorized by the Commissioner.
(c) If any electric vehicle charging station shall be found to be giving inaccurate measure of the amount of electricity delivered in excess of the tolerance established by regulations of the Commissioner, the inspector shall then and there notify the electric vehicle charging provider, whether owner or lessee. Should the electric vehicle charging provider fail or refuse to then and there make such adjustments as shall be necessary to bring the measure within the allowed variation, the same shall be condemned and rendered inoperable immediately by the inspector examining the same; and such electric vehicle charging station shall not again be operated without the written consent of the Commissioner. Inspectors shall be required to report to the Commissioner immediately the name and number of any electric vehicle charging station condemned and rendered inoperable.
(d) When any electric vehicle charging station is condemned under this article by any inspector, it shall be the duty of the inspector immediately to make affidavit before the judge of the probate court of the county in which the electric vehicle charging station is located that such station is being operated contrary to law by the electric vehicle charging provider who shall be named in the affidavit. Thereupon the judge of the probate court shall issue an order to the electric vehicle charging provider named in the affidavit to show cause before him or her on the day named in the order, not more than ten days nor fewer than three days from the issuance of the order, why the electric vehicle charging station should not be forfeited, confiscated to the state, and dismantled. On such day named in the order, it shall be the duty of the judge of the probate court to hear the respective parties and to determine whether or not the electric vehicle charging station has been operated contrary to the provisions of this article. If the judge of the probate court finds that the electric vehicle charging station has been so operated, he or she shall forthwith issue an order adjudging the electric vehicle charging station to be forfeited and confiscated to the state and directing the sheriff of the county to dismantle the electric vehicle charging station and take it into his or her possession, and, after ten days' notice by posting or publication, as the court may direct, to sell the electric vehicle charging station to the highest bidder for cash. The proceeds of sale, or as much thereof as may be necessary, shall be used by the sheriff, first, to pay the costs associated with sale, which shall be the same as in cases of attachment, and the sheriff shall thereupon pay over and deliver the residue, if any, to the person from whose possession the electric vehicle charging station has been taken.
(e) It shall be unlawful to install or operate any electric vehicle charging station which can be secretly manipulated in such manner as to give short measure. Such inaccurate electric vehicle charging station shall be condemned as provided in this Code section, and thereafter it shall be unlawful for any person to resell any electricity from such electric vehicle charging station until such station has been made or altered to comply with this article and has been inspected and approved for service by the inspector.
(f) It shall be unlawful for anyone to remove a seal applied by an inspector to an electric vehicle charging station without first securing consent of the Commissioner, whose consent may be given through one of the duly authorized inspectors.
(g) The department shall have the power to implement rules and regulations necessary to carry out the inspections of electric vehicle charging stations as provided for by this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 588,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 248,§ 2-2, eff. 1/1/2026.
