# § 10-1-222. [Effective 1/1/2026] Charging stations to be capable of measuring and displaying amount of electricity delivered; annual registration

(a) All electric vehicle charging stations shall be capable of accurately measuring and prominently displaying the amount of electricity delivered to each electric vehicle on a per kilowatt-hour basis, either directly upon the station or remotely through the use of a digital network. Such stations shall be further equipped with meters to record the total kilowatt-hours dispensed.
(b) All electric vehicle charging stations shall be subject to inspection as provided for in this article. Prior to operation of any electric vehicle charging station and annually thereafter, an electric vehicle charging provider shall register with the Commissioner in the form and manner prescribed by such Commissioner. Such registration shall include the location of the electric vehicle charging station; the name, brand, or manufacturer of the type of electric vehicle charging station, together with the name and address thereof; and certification that the electric vehicle charging station is in conformity with the specifications established pursuant to this article by the Commissioner. Certificates of registration issued by the Commissioner pursuant to this Code section shall be posted in a prominent and accessible place upon the electric vehicle charging station.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 588,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 248,§ 2-2, eff. 1/1/2026.
