# § 10-1-21. Definitions

(1) "Business days" means any calendar day except Saturdays, Sundays, and any federal holiday.
(2)
  (A) "Door-to-door sale" means a sale, lease, or rental of goods or services:
    (i) Solicited in person by the seller or seller's representative, including, but not limited to, solicitations in response to or following an invitation by the buyer;
    (ii) For which the buyer's agreement or offer to purchase is made at a place other than the seller's place of business; and
    (iii) That includes the following three components:
      (I) Payments of $10,000.00 or more;
      (II) A lease, financing arrangement, or other agreement with a term of more than 120 months; and
      (III) Is eligible, or is alleged by the seller or seller's representative to be eligible, for federal tax credits.
  (B) "Door-to door sale" shall not include a transaction:
    (i) Conducted without any in-person contact between the buyer and the seller or seller's representative prior to delivery of the goods or performance of the services;
    (ii) In which the buyer has initiated the contact and specifically requested the seller or seller's representative to visit the buyer's home for the purpose of repairing or performing maintenance upon the buyer's property. If, in the course of such a visit, the seller sells the buyer the right to receive additional goods or services, other than replacement parts necessarily used in performing maintenance or making repairs, the sale of those additional goods or services would not fall under this exclusion; or
    (iii) Pertaining to the sale or rental of real property or to the sale of insurance.
(3) "Place of business" means the main or permanent branch, office, or local address of a seller.
(4) "Purchase price" means the total price paid or to be paid for the goods or services, including all interest and service charges.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 263,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
