# § 10-1-787. Finality of arbitrator's decision; appeals by manufacturers; time for compliance with arbitrator's decision

(a) The decision of the arbitrator or arbitrators is final unless a party to the arbitration, within 30 days of entry of the decision, appeals the decision to the superior court. A party who appeals a decision shall follow the procedures set forth in Chapter 3 of Title 5, and any appeal shall be de novo; however, the decision of the arbitrator or arbitrators shall be admissible in evidence.
(b) If the manufacturer appeals, the court may require the manufacturer to post security for the consumer's financial loss due to the passage of time for review.
(c) If the manufacturer appeals and the consumer prevails, recovery, in addition to the arbitrator's award, shall include all charges incurred by the consumer during the pendency of, or as a result of, the appeal, including, but not limited to, continuing collateral and incidental costs, technical or expert witness fees, attorney's fees, and court costs.
(d) A manufacturer which does not appeal a decision in favor of a consumer must fully comply with the decision within 40 days of entry thereof. If a manufacturer does not fully comply within the 40 day time period, the Attorney General may issue an order imposing a civil penalty of up to $1,000.00 per day for each day that the manufacturer remains out of compliance. The provisions of Code Sections 10-1-398 and 10-1-398.1 shall apply in connection with the imposition of a civil penalty under this subsection. It shall be an affirmative defense to the imposition of a civil penalty under this subsection that a delay or failure to comply was beyond the manufacturer's control or that a delay was acceptable to the consumer.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 187,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 696,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2009.
