# § 10-1-529-3. Duty of museums and archives repositories to keep accurate records of property held on loan; notice of change in ownership of loaned property

(a) Each museum or archives repository shall keep accurate records of all property on loan to the museum or archives repository, including the name and address of the owner, if known, and the beginning and ending date of the loan period. At the time that a person makes a loan to a museum or archives repository, the museum or archives repository shall give the owner of the property a copy of this article. If a museum or archives repository is notified of a change in the ownership of any property loaned to a museum or archives repository, the museum or archives repository shall inform the new owner of the provisions of the loan agreement and shall send the new owner a copy of this article. Not less than 90 days before a museum or archives repository changes its address or dissolves, the museum or archives repository shall notify all owners of that change of address or dissolution. If a museum or archives repository becomes the owner of property under Code Section 10-1-529.4 or 10-1-529.5, the museum or archives repository shall maintain any records that the museum or archives repository has regarding the property for not less than two years after the date on which the museum or archives repository becomes the owner of the property.
(b) The owner of property loaned to a museum or archives repository shall provide the museum or archives repository with written notice of any change of the owner's address, of the owner's designated agent, of the designated agent's address, and of the name and address of the new owner if there is a change in the ownership of the property loaned to the museum or archives repository.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 741,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
