# § 10-1-783. Provision of owner's manual and notice of rights; fully itemized and legible repair order; copies of reports

(a) The manufacturer shall publish an owner's manual and provide it to the new motor vehicle dealer. The owner's manual shall include a clear and conspicuous listing of addresses, email addresses, facsimile numbers, and toll-free telephone numbers for the manufacturer's customer service personnel who are authorized to direct activities regarding repair of the consumer's vehicle. A manufacturer shall also provide all applicable manufacturer's written warranties to the new motor vehicle dealer, who shall transfer the owner's manual and all applicable manufacturer's written warranties to the consumer at the time of purchase or vehicle acquisition.
(b) At the time of purchase or vehicle acquisition, the new motor vehicle dealer shall provide the consumer with a written statement that explains the consumer's rights under this article. The statement shall be written by the Attorney General and shall contain information regarding the procedures and remedies under this article.
(c) By October 1 of each year, the manufacturer shall forward to the Attorney General one copy of the owner's manual and the express warranty for each make and model of current year new motor vehicles it sells in this state. To the extent the instructions, terms, and conditions in the owner's manuals and express warranties for other models of the same make are substantially the same, submission of the owner's manual and express warranty for one model and a list of all other models for that make will satisfy the requirements of this subsection.
(d) Each time the consumer's new motor vehicle is returned from being diagnosed or repaired, the manufacturer, its authorized agent, or the new motor vehicle dealer shall provide to the consumer a fully itemized and legible statement or repair order containing a general description of the problem reported by the consumer; the date and the odometer reading when the vehicle was submitted for repair; the date and odometer reading when the vehicle was made available to the consumer; the results of any diagnostic test, inspection, or test drive; a description of any diagnosis or problem identified by the manufacturer, its authorized agent, or the new motor vehicle dealer; and an itemization of all work performed on the vehicle, including, but not limited to, parts and labor.
(e) Upon request of the consumer, the manufacturer, its authorized agent, or the new motor vehicle dealer shall provide a copy of any report or computer reading compiled by the manufacturer's representative regarding inspection, diagnosis, or test drive of the consumer's new motor vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 187,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 696,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2009.
