# § 10-1-220. [Effective 1/1/2026] Definitions

(1) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Agriculture.
(2) "Department" means the Department of Agriculture.
(3) "Digital network" means internet enabled technology or digital media, including, but not limited to, consumer applications accessible through computers or mobile electronic devices, offered or used by an electric vehicle charging provider that allows a user to initiate a retail transaction to deliver electricity from an electric vehicle charging station to an electric vehicle.
(4) "Electric vehicle" means a vehicle that is propelled by one or more electric motors fueled by energy stored in the form of a rechargeable battery.
(5) "Electric vehicle charging provider" means the owner of an electric vehicle charging station.
(6) "Electric vehicle charging station" means any device or group of devices that delivers electricity from a power source outside an electric vehicle into one or more electric vehicles and that is located somewhere other than a residence.
(7) "Residence" means a single-family dwelling, multifamily dwelling, or a building which is an extended stay rental, as such term is defined in Code Section 48-13-50.3, where a device delivers electricity to an electric vehicle from a power source upon the property of such a dwelling or building for purposes other than commercial or for the exclusive use of certain persons located upon such property.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 588,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 248,§ 2-2, eff. 1/1/2026.
