# § 44-2-193. Action against fund - Limitations; defense by Attorney General; measure of damages; tolling of limitations during disability; notice to unknown persons

(a) Any person entitled to notice who had no actual notice of any registration under this article depriving him of any estate or interest in land and who is without remedy under this article may, within two years after accrual to him or to some person through whom he claims the right to bring such action, bring an action against the state treasurer in the superior court in the county where such land is located for the recovery out of the assurance fund of any damages to which he may be entitled by reason of any such deprivation. The state treasurer shall be served by the second original of proceedings so filed, which service shall be sufficient.
(b) The assurance fund shall be defended in such action and in any appeal by the Attorney General. The measure of damages shall be the value of the property at the time the right to bring the action first accrued; and any judgment rendered therefor shall be paid as provided in Code Section 44-2-195.
(c) If any person entitled to bring such action shall be under the disability of infancy, insanity, imprisonment, or absence from the state in the service of the state or of the United States at the time the right to bring such action first accrued, the action may be brought by him or his privies within two years after the removal of such disability.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, all nonresidents of the state and all persons who are described in the proceedings as being unknown, or of unknown address, or as to whom it appears from the record that they could not be found so as to be served shall be considered as having had actual notice when notice has been published in accordance with this article.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
