# § 44-2-41. Definitions

(1) "Clerk" means the clerk of the superior court of the county where the land is located and includes his lawful deputies and any person lawfully acting as clerk under the general laws or under this article.
(2) "Court" means the superior court of the county where the land is located.
(3) "Involuntary transaction" means all transmissions of registered land or of any interest therein other than those included in paragraph (6) of this Code section and all other rights or claims, judicial proceedings, liens, charges, or encumbrances not created directly by contract with the registered owner but arising by operation of law or of equitable principles or because of dower, the exercise of the right of eminent domain, levies on delinquent taxes, or any other like matters affecting registered land or any interest therein.
(4) "Judge," "judge of the court," "judge of the superior court," "judge of the superior court of the county where the land is located" or words of similar purport mean any judge presiding in the superior court of the county where the land is located. While it is intended that as a usual matter the judge of the superior court of each circuit shall be the judge who shall act upon and sit in the various matters arising in that circuit with which the judges of such courts are charged under this article, as to such matters any judge of the superior court shall have jurisdiction to perform the functions of judge under this article. In the event the judge of the superior court of the circuit in which the transaction or matter arises is disqualified, absent from the circuit, ill, dead, or from any other cause cannot act in the matter, it shall be the duty of any other judge of the superior court to whom the matter is presented to act in the matter to the same extent as if the same arose in one of the counties of his own circuit. In any matter arising under this article, upon the request of the judge of the superior court of the circuit in which it arose, any judge of the superior court may act upon it as if it had arisen in his own circuit.
(5) "Registered land" means any estate or interest in land which shall have been registered under this article.
(6) "Voluntary transaction" means all contractual and other voluntary acts or dealings, except by will, by any registered owner of any estate or interest in land, with reference to such estate or interest and any right of homestead or exemption therein.
