# § 44-2-103. Examiner's powers; contents, filing, and notice of examiner's report; right to jury trial, new trial, and appeal; recommitment to examiner after trial or reversal on appeal

(a) At the time and place set for the hearing, the examiner shall, in like manner as other auditors, proceed with similar powers as to the compelling of the attendance of witnesses, the production of books and papers, and adjournment and recessing to hear all lawful evidence submitted. In addition he may make such independent examination of the title as he may deem necessary.
(b) Within 15 days after the hearing has been concluded unless for good cause the time is extended by the judge, the examiner shall file with the clerk a report of his conclusions of law and of fact setting forth the state of the title; any liens or encumbrances thereon, by whom held, and the amounts due thereon; the abstract of title to the land; any other information affecting the validity of the title; and a brief or a stenographic report of the evidence taken by him. He shall mail notice of the filing of his report to each of the parties who have appeared in the case. Any of the parties to the proceeding may file exceptions to the conclusions of law or of fact or to the general findings of the examiner within 20 days after such report is filed. The clerk shall thereupon notify the judge that the record is ready for his determination.
(c) If the petitioner or any contestant of the petitioner's right shall demand a trial by jury upon any issue of fact arising upon exceptions to the examiner's report, the court shall cause the same to be referred to a jury either at the term of court which may then be in session or at the next term of the court or at any succeeding term of the court to which the case may be continued for good and lawful reasons. It shall be the duty of the judge to expedite the hearing of the case and not to continue it unless for good cause shown or upon the consent of all parties at interest. The issue or issues of fact shall be tried before the jury, in the event jury trial is requested, upon the evidence reported by the examiner except in cases where, under law, evidence other than that reported by an auditor may be submitted to the jury on exceptions to an auditor's report. Furthermore, in cases where the examiner has reported to the court findings of fact based on his personal examination, either party may introduce additional testimony as to such facts, provided that the party will make it appear under oath that he has not been fully heard and given full opportunity to present testimony on the same matter before the examiner. The verdict of the jury upon the questions of fact shall operate to the same extent as in the case of exceptions to an auditor's report in an ordinary civil action.
(d) In all matters not otherwise provided for, the procedure upon the examiner's report and the exceptions thereto shall be in accordance with procedure prevailing as to the auditor's reports and exceptions thereto.
(e) The right to grant a new trial upon any issue submitted to a jury and the right of appeal shall be as provided for in Code Sections 5-6-37 through 5-6-44, 5-6-48, and 5-6-49.
(f) The judge may refer or recommit the record to the examiner in like manner as auditor's reports may be recommitted or he or she may on his or her own motion recommit it to the same or any other examiner for further information and report. When an exception or exceptions to the examiner's report have been sustained by the court or by verdict on the trial of an issue of fact or when the appellate court reverses the judgment of the trial court, it shall not be necessary for the trial court to recommit the case to an examiner, but the judge shall proceed to enter a decree in accordance with the law and the facts as thus established and appearing from the record; provided, however, that if the judge, in his or her discretion, is of the opinion that it is in the interests of truth and justice that a recommitment to an examiner should be made, the judge may, upon the motion of any party or on his or her own motion, order a recommitment of the whole case or any part thereof or for the taking of additional testimony upon any matter which the court deems necessary to the rendition of a true and correct decree.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 626,§ 3-10, eff. 1/1/2017.
