# § 44-2-36. Definitions

(1) "Authority" means the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority established pursuant to Code Section 15-6-94.
(2) "Document" means information that is:
  (A) Inscribed on a tangible medium or that is stored in an electronic or other medium and is retrievable in perceivable form; and
  (B) Eligible to be recorded in the land records maintained by the clerk of superior court.
(3) "Electronic" means relating to technology having electrical, digital, magnetic, wireless, optical, electromagnetic, or similar capabilities.
(4) "Electronic document" means a document that is received by the clerk of superior court in an electronic form.
(5) "Electronic signature" means an electronic sound, symbol, or process attached to or logically associated with a document and executed or adopted by a person with the intent to sign the document.
(6) "Paper document" means a document that is received by the clerk of superior court that is not electronic.
(7) "Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture, public corporation, government, or governmental subdivision, agency, or instrumentality, or any other legal or commercial entity.
(8) "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.

## History

Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 140,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
