# § 44-2-64. Petition - Verification; contents; description of land; surveys; amendments

The petition and amendments thereto shall be signed and sworn to by each petitioner, or, in the case of a corporation, by some officer thereof, or, in the case of a person under disability, by the person filing the petition. It shall contain a full description of the land, its valuation, and its last assessment for county taxation; shall show when, how, and from whom it was acquired, a description of the title by which he claims the land, and an abstract of title; shall state whether or not it is occupied; and shall give an account of all known liens, interests, and claims, adverse or otherwise, vested or contingent. Full names and addresses, if known, of all persons who may have any interest in the land, including adjoining owners and occupants, shall be given. The description of the land given in the petition shall be in terms which will identify the same fully and which will tend to describe the same as permanently as is reasonably practicable under all the circumstances. If the land is in a portion of the state in which land is divided into land districts and lot numbers by state survey, the petition shall state the number of the land district and the lot number or numbers in which the tract is located. Before passing a decree upon any petition for registration, the judge, on his own motion or upon the recommendation of the examiner, may require a fuller and more adequate description or one tending more permanently to identify the tract in question to be included in the petition by amendment; and if, in the discretion of the court, it shall be necessary, the judge may for that purpose require a survey of the premises to be made and the boundaries marked by permanent monuments. The acreage or other superficial contents of the tract shall be stated with approximate accuracy; and where reasonably practicable the court may require the metes and bounds to be stated.
