# § 44-2-233. Book of decrees; index

(a) It is contemplated by this article that the book known as the register of decrees of title shall be made up in the following manner:
  (1) It shall be of such size that each page may contain a full copy of the decree of title;
  (2) Only one decree should be entered on any page;
  (3) Each page should have printed thereon the form of the decree of title as prescribed in Code Section 44-2-232 with ample spacing left in the blanks;
  (4) At the bottom of the page should be the words: "Entered and registered this __________________ day of __________________, __________________, at __________________: __________________ __________________. M. and certificate of title No. __________________ issued thereon.__________________Clerk"and
  (5) At the top of the page and preceding the copy of the decree should be the words, "Registered Title No. __________________." The first decree entered is numbered "Registered Title No. 1," the second "Registered Title No. 2," and so on in continuous, consecutive order. The registered title number of a registered tract never changes though any number of subsequent certificates may be issued thereon; therefore, the registered title number and the certificate number will usually be different.
(b) Even though several separate tracts may be joined in the same application, the judge should render separate decrees as to each tract; and these decrees should be separately entered and given separate registered title numbers. Every certificate of title, owner's certificate, and creditor's certificate must carry on it, in addition to its own certificate number, the registered title number of the decree under which the tract to which it pertains was registered.
(c) A part of the register of decrees of title shall be an alphabetical index thereto which the clerk shall carefully keep. Whenever a decree is entered on the register of decrees of title, the clerk shall immediately index it in the name of the person in whose favor the title is registered under proper alphabetical head, the name being followed by the registered title number. If the decree is in favor of more than one person, it shall be separately indexed under the name of each and every one of them, the name of each of said persons being shown under the proper alphabetical head.
