# § 44-2-240. Owner's certificate of title

(a) The form of the owner's certificate of title shall correspond in general with the certificate of title form except that it shall be headed with the words "Owner's Certificate of Title." It is suggested that it be prepared on paper of suitable size which shall be folded into four pages. The first page shall contain the certificate proper omitting the notations and special entries. The inner pages, pages 2 and 3, shall be ruled and written or printed, preferably the latter, in conformity with the form shown in Code Section 44-2-234 for the printing and ruling of the title register for the entry of transfers, liens, encumbrances, creditors' certificates, and other like matters, these two pages being treated for this purpose as a single sheet so that ample space will thereby be given for the crosswise extension of the entries. The back, or fourth, page shall be endorsed as follows: OWNER'S CERTIFICATE OF TITLERegistered Title No. __________________Certificate No. __________________Issued to ____________________________________Georgia, __________________ CountyEntered and Registered (in lieu of certificate No. __________________, which has been canceled).This the __________________ day of __________________, __________________, at __________________:__________________ __________________. M.__________________Clerk, Superior Court
(b) In case of the first issuance of the owner's certificate on the granting of a decree of registration, the words shown in parenthesis in the endorsement should be omitted.
(c) It is suggested that convenience will be served by folding the certificate in the manner of folding documents written on legal cap or foolscap paper and by writing or printing the endorsement in the style and manner in which similar endorsements are usually put on legal documents. When printed blanks are prepared for use in this connection, it is also suggested that a blank form of transfer be printed on part of the fourth page other than that part used for the endorsement. However, space should be left on the fourth page for such entries as the clerk may be required to make, from time to time, under this article such as certifying that the certificate is valid with all entries noted to date.
