# § 44-2-242. Creditor's certificate; endorsement of certificate

(a) The following is a form of the creditor's certificate referred to in this article: CREDITOR'S CERTIFICATE State of Georgia, __________________ County: Registered Title No. __________________ Certificate No. __________________I hereby certify that the title to the estate hereinafter mentioned in the following described land lying in said county, __________________ __________________ is registered under the provisions of the Land Registration Law and thereby vested in __________________ as security for a debt created by the holder of the owner's certificate of title to said estate, (here insert name of the holder of the owner's certificate); said debt being particularly described as follows: ____________________________________ with power conferred to sell the same after lawful advertisement, without foreclosure, in accordance with the provisions of the Land Registration Law, if any part of said debt is not paid at maturity. The estate in said land so held is as follows:____________________________________ subject to the following limitations, conditions, encumbrances, etc.,__________________ and such other as may be noted hereon.Witness my hand and seal of office, this __________________ day of __________________, __________________, at __________________:__________________ __________________. M.__________________Clerk, Superior Court,__________________(Official Seal)County
(b) All uncanceled entries appearing on the certificate of title at the time the creditor's certificate is issued shall be noted and entered on the creditor's certificate.
(c) The creditor's certificate shall bear an endorsement on its back in the following form: CREDITOR'S CERTIFICATE Registered Title No. __________________ Certificate No. __________________On lands registered in the name of __________________ Issued to __________________ Georgia, __________________County.Entered and registered this __________________ day of __________________, __________________, at __________________: __________________ __________________. M.__________________Clerk, Superior Court
