# § 44-2-234. Title register book; registered title number; index of title register

(a) It is contemplated by this article that the title register shall be a well-bound book with pages not less than 18 inches wide. It shall be labeled on the back with the words "Title Register" followed by the name of the county. For convenience, additional labels may be used in order to show what certificates are included, for example, "Certificates 1501-2000, inclusive," or other similar information. It shall be printed and ruled in substantially the following form: Click here to view imageClick here to view image
(b) The two pages facing each other on the register shall constitute the original certificate of title when the blanks are duly filled in and signed by the clerk. The first certificate of title in the book should be numbered "Certificate No. 1," the next one "Certificate No. 2," and so on, in continuous, consecutive order. If a new book is opened, the numbering therein should begin with the number next succeeding the last number in the book just completed.
(c) In registering a certificate of title, in addition to the certificate number, the registered title number should also be inserted. The registered title number is always the same as that which appears on the decree of title, by virtue of which the land to which the certificate relates was originally registered. Therefore, every certificate of title registered in the title register shall bear a different certificate number from every other certificate of title registered therein; but all certificates of title which refer to the same registered tract, no matter how many such certificates may be issued in the course of time, shall bear the same registered title number.
(d) The clerk shall keep an alphabetical index of the title register. This may most conveniently be kept in a separate book. Whenever a certificate of title is entered in the title register, the clerk shall insert in the index, under proper alphabetical head, the name of the person in whose favor the certificate is registered, the reference to the certificate number, and the reference to the registered title number. Whenever a certificate is entered in the name of more than one person, the name of each shall be likewise alphabetically indexed.
