# § 44-2-72. Posting notice on land and buildings; ascertainment of and notice to occupants; return to court; seizure and custody of the land and attachment of jurisdiction

(a) A notice similar to the notice published as provided in Code Section 44-2-67 shall be delivered by the clerk to the sheriff of the county or to one of his lawful deputies; and the sheriff or his lawful deputy shall, within 30 days from the date the petition is filed, post the same upon the land in some conspicuous place. If there is more than one tract of land, the clerk shall furnish enough notices to the sheriff or his deputy to allow the posting of a notice upon each tract of land included in the petition.
(b) If the land contains one or more dwelling houses or one or more buildings used as a place of business, the sheriff shall conspicuously post upon each house or building the notice provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section; and he shall state this in his return to the court.
(c) Within 30 days from the date the petition is filed, the sheriff shall go upon the land and ascertain the identities of the occupants of the land. He shall make an official return to the court stating the name and post office address of each person over 14 years of age actually occupying the premises.
(d) After receiving the sheriff's return, the clerk shall send a copy of the petition and process by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to each person occupying the land or he may require the sheriff or his deputy to serve a copy of the petition and process upon such persons. The clerk shall make an entry if he has mailed the notices or, if the sheriff has made the service of process, the sheriff shall make the return.
(e) After the sheriff or his deputy has entered upon the land, posted the notices provided for in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, and made his return to the court as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, the land shall be deemed to have been seized and brought into the custody of the court for the purposes of this article; and the court's jurisdiction in rem and quasi in rem shall attach thereto for purposes of land registration proceedings under this article.
(f) The clerk shall attach to each owner's certificate of title a certified copy of the sheriff's return.
