# § 33-8-4.2. Assignment, carryover, and liability regarding tax credits

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "affiliated entity" means:
  (1) A corporation that is a member of the taxpayer's "affiliated group" within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Internal Revenue Code and which corporation has a tax liability under Code Section 33-8-4; or
  (2) An entity affiliated with a corporation, business, partnership, or limited liability company taxpayer, which entity has a tax liability under Code Section 33-8-4 and which entity:
    (A) Owns or leases the land on which a project is constructed;
    (B) Provides capital for construction of the project; and
    (C) Is the grantor or owner under a management agreement with a managing company of the project.
(b) In lieu of claiming any tax credit under Code Section 33-8-4.1 for which a taxpayer otherwise is eligible for the calendar year (such eligibility being determined for this purpose without regard to any limitation imposed by reason of the taxpayer's precredit tax liability under Code Section 33-8-4), the taxpayer may elect to assign such credit in whole or in part to one or more affiliated entities for such calendar year by attaching a statement to the taxpayer's return for the calendar year; provided, however, that no carryover attributable to the unused portion of any previously claimed or assigned credit may be assigned or reassigned, except as provided in subsection (d) of this Code section. Such election must be made on or before the due date for filing the applicable tax return under Code Section 33-8-4, including any extensions which have been granted. In the case of any credit that must be claimed in installments in more than one calendar year, the election under this subsection may be made on an annual basis with respect to each such installment, provided that the taxpayer shall notify the Commissioner with respect to the assignment of each such installment by filing a separate copy of the election statement for such installment no later than the due date for filing the applicable tax return under Code Section 33-8-4, including any extensions which have been granted. Once made, an election under this subsection shall be irrevocable.
(c) The recipient of a tax credit assigned under subsection (b) of this Code section shall attach a statement to its tax return under Code Section 33-8-4 identifying the assignor of the tax credit, in addition to providing any other information required to be provided by a claimant of the assigned tax credit.
(d) If the assignor and the recipient of a tax credit assigned under subsection (b) of this Code section cease to be affiliated entities, any carryover attributable to the unused portion of such credit shall be transferred back to the assignor of the credit. Such assignor shall be permitted to use any such carryover itself and also shall be permitted to assign such carryover to one or more affiliated entities, as if such carryover were a tax credit under Code Section 33-8-4.1 for which the assignor became eligible in the calendar year in which the carryover was transferred back to the assignor.
(e) The assignor and recipient of a tax credit assigned under subsection (b) of this Code section shall be jointly and severally liable for any tax under Code Section 33-8-4(plus interest and penalties, if any) attributable to the disallowance or recapture of the assigned credit.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-42, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 730,§ 8, eff. 1/1/2009.
