# § 33-8-4. Amount and method of computing tax on insurance premiums generally; exclusion of annuity considerations

(a) All foreign, alien, and domestic insurance companies doing business in this state shall pay a tax of 2 1/4 percent upon the gross direct premiums received by them. The tax shall be levied upon persons, property, or risks in Georgia, from January 1 to December 31, both inclusive, of each year without regard to business ceded to or assumed from other companies. The tax shall be imposed upon gross premiums received from direct writings without any deductions allowed for premium abatements of any kind or character or for reinsurance or for cash surrender values paid, or for losses or expenses of any kind; provided, however, that deductions shall be allowed for premiums returned on change of rate or canceled policies; provided, further, that deductions may be permitted for return premiums or assessments, including all policy dividends, refunds, or other similar returns paid or credited to policyholders and not reapplied as premium for additional or extended life insurance. The term "gross direct premiums" shall not include annuity considerations.
(b) For purposes of this chapter, annuity considerations received by nonprofit corporations licensed to do business in this state issuing annuities to fund retirement benefits for teachers and staff personnel of private secondary schools and colleges and universities shall not be considered gross direct premium.
(c) Insurers shall be exempt from otherwise applicable state premium taxes as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section on premiums paid by Georgia residents for high deductible health plans as defined by Section 223 of the Internal Revenue Code.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-40, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 128,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 463,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2009.
