# § 33-8-4.1. State insurance premiums tax credits for insurance companies located in certain counties designated as less developed areas; authority of commissioner of community affairs and Commissioner

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Business enterprise" means any insurance company or the headquarters of any insurance company required to pay the tax under Code Section 33-8-4.
  (2) "Existing business enterprise" means any insurance company or the headquarters of any insurance company required to pay the tax under Code Section 33-8-4 which has operated for the immediately preceding three years a facility in this state.
(b)
  (1) Not later than December 31 of each year, using the most current data available from the Department of Labor and the United States Department of Commerce, the commissioner of community affairs shall rank and designate as less developed areas all 159 counties in this state using a combination of the following equally weighted factors:
    (A) Highest unemployment rate for the most recent 36 month period;
    (B) Lowest per capita income for the most recent 36 month period; and
    (C) Highest percentage of residents whose incomes are below the poverty level according to the most recent data available.
  (2) Counties ranked and designated as the first through seventy-first least developed counties shall be classified as tier 1, counties ranked and designated as the seventy-second through one hundred sixth least developed counties shall be classified as tier 2, counties ranked and designated as the one hundred seventh through one hundred forty-first least developed counties shall be classified as tier 3, and counties ranked and designated as the one hundred forty-second through one hundred fifty-ninth least developed counties shall be classified as tier 4.
(c) The commissioner of community affairs shall be authorized to include in the tier 2 designation provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section any tier 3 county which, in the opinion of the commissioner of community affairs, undergoes a sudden and severe period of economic distress caused by the closing of one or more business enterprises located in such county. No designation made pursuant to this subsection shall operate to displace or remove any other county previously designated as a tier 2 county.
(d) The commissioner of community affairs shall be authorized to include in the tier 1 designation provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section any tier 2 county which, in the opinion of the commissioner of community affairs, undergoes a sudden and severe period of economic distress caused by the closing of one or more business enterprises located in such county. No designation made pursuant to this subsection shall operate to displace or remove any other county previously designated as a tier 1 county.
(e) For business enterprises which plan a significant expansion in their labor forces, the commissioner of community affairs shall prescribe redesignation procedures to ensure that the business enterprises can claim credits in future years without regard to whether or not a particular county is reclassified in a different tier.
(f)
  (1) Business enterprises in counties designated by the commissioner of community affairs as tier 1 counties shall be allowed a job tax credit for taxes imposed under Code Section 33-8-4 equal to $3,500.00 annually per eligible new full-time employee job for five years beginning with years two through six after the creation of such job. Business enterprises in counties designated by the commissioner of community affairs as tier 2 counties shall be allowed a job tax credit for taxes imposed under Code Section 33-8-4 equal to $2,500.00 annually, business enterprises in counties designated by the commissioner of community affairs as tier 3 counties shall be allowed a job tax credit for taxes imposed under Code Section 33-8-4 equal to $1,250.00 annually, and business enterprises in counties designated by the commissioner of community affairs as tier 4 counties shall be allowed a job tax credit for taxes imposed under Code Section 33-8-4 equal to $750.00 annually for each new full-time employee job for five years beginning with years two through six after the creation of the job. The number of new full-time jobs shall be determined by comparing the monthly average number of full-time employees subject to Georgia income tax withholding for the calendar year with the corresponding period of the prior calendar year. In tier 1 counties, those business enterprises that increase employment by five or more shall be eligible for the credit. In tier 2 counties, only those business enterprises that increase employment by ten or more shall be eligible for the credit. In tier 3 counties, only those business enterprises that increase employment by 15 or more shall be eligible for the credit. In tier 4 counties, only those business enterprises that increase employment by 25 or more shall be eligible for the credit. The average wage of the new jobs created must be above the average wage of the county that has the lowest average wage of any county in the state to qualify as reported in the most recently available annual issue of the Georgia Employment and Wages Averages Report of the Department of Labor. To qualify for a credit under this paragraph, the employer must make health insurance coverage available to the employee filling the new full-time job; provided, however, that nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require the employer to pay for all or any part of health insurance coverage for such an employee in order to claim the credit provided for in this paragraph if such employer does not pay for all or any part of health insurance coverage for other employees. Credit shall not be allowed during a year if the net employment increase falls below the number required in such tier. Any credit received for years prior to the year in which the net employment increase falls below the number required in such tier shall not be affected. The Commissioner of Insurance shall adjust the credit allowed each year for net new employment fluctuations above the minimum level of the number required in such tier.
  (2) Existing business enterprises as defined under paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be allowed an additional tax credit for taxes imposed under Code Section 33-8-4 equal to $500.00 per eligible new full-time employee job for one year after the creation of such job. The additional credit shall be claimed in year two after the creation of such job. The number of new full-time jobs shall be determined by comparing the monthly average number of full-time employees subject to Georgia income tax withholding for the calendar year with the corresponding period of the prior calendar year. In tier 1 counties, those existing business enterprises that increase employment by five or more shall be eligible for the credit. In tier 2 counties, only those existing business enterprises that increase employment by ten or more shall be eligible for the credit. In tier 3 counties, only those existing business enterprises that increase employment by 15 or more shall be eligible for the credit. In tier 4 counties, only those existing business enterprises that increase employment by 25 or more shall be eligible for the credit. The average wage of the new jobs created must be above the average wage of the county that has the lowest average wage of any county in the state to qualify as reported in the most recently available annual issue of the Georgia Employment and Wages Averages Report of the Department of Labor. To qualify for a credit under this paragraph, the employer must make health insurance coverage available to the employee filling the new full-time job; provided, however, that nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to require the employer to pay for all or any part of health insurance coverage for such an employee in order to claim the credit provided for in this paragraph if such employer does not pay for all or any part of health insurance coverage for other employees. Credit shall not be allowed during a year if the net employment increase falls below the number required in such tier. Any credit received for years prior to the year in which the net employment increase falls below the number required in such tier shall not be affected. The Commissioner of Insurance shall adjust the credit allowed each year for net new employment fluctuations above the minimum level of the number required in such tier.
(g) Tax credits for five years for the taxes imposed under Code Section 33-8-4 shall be awarded for additional new full-time jobs created by business enterprises qualified under subsection (b), (c), or (d) of this Code section. Additional new full-time jobs shall be determined by subtracting the highest total employment of the business enterprise during years two through six, or whatever portion of years two through six which has been completed, from the total increased employment. The Commissioner of Insurance shall adjust the credit allowed in the event of employment fluctuations during the additional five years of credit.
(h) The sale, merger, acquisition, or bankruptcy of any business enterprise shall not create new eligibility in any succeeding business entity, but any unused job tax credit may be transferred and continued by any transferee of the business enterprise. The commissioner of community affairs shall determine whether or not qualifying net increases or decreases have occurred and may require reports, promulgate regulations, and hold hearings as needed for substantiation and qualification.
(i)
  (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, any credit claimed under this Code section but not used in that calendar year may be carried forward for ten years from the close of the calendar year in which the qualified jobs were established, but in tiers 3 and 4 the credit established by this Code section taken in any one calendar year shall be limited to an amount not greater than 50 percent of the taxpayer's tax liability under Code Section 33-8-4 which is attributable to operations in this state for that calendar year. In tier 1 and 2 counties, the credit allowed under this Code section against taxes imposed under Code Section 33-8-4 in any calendar year shall be limited to an amount not greater than 100 percent of the taxpayer's tax liability under Code Section 33-8-4 attributable to operations in this state for such calendar year.
  (2) The additional credit claimed by an existing business enterprise pursuant to the provisions of paragraph (2) of subsection (f) of this Code section must be applied against taxes imposed for the calendar year in which such credit is available and may not be carried forward to any subsequent calendar year.
(j) The Commissioner of Insurance may require such reports, promulgate such regulations, and gather such relevant data necessary and advisable for the evaluation of the job tax credits established by this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-41, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 730,§ 7, eff. 1/1/2009.
