# § 33-8-8.1. County and municipal corporation taxes on life insurance companies

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "life insurance company" means a company which is authorized to transact only the class of insurance designated in Code Section 33-3-5 as class (1).
(b) Life insurance companies are subject to county and municipal corporation taxes levied as follows:
  (1) There is imposed a county tax for county purposes on each life insurance company doing business within the state, which tax shall be based solely upon gross direct premiums, as defined in Code Section 33-8-4, which are received during the preceding calendar year from policies insuring persons residing within the unincorporated area of the counties pursuant to the provisions of this Code section. The rate of such tax shall be 1 percent of such premiums, except that such tax shall not apply to the gross direct premiums of an insurance company which qualifies, pursuant to Code Section 33-8-5, for the reduction to one-half of 1 percent of the state tax imposed by Code Section 33-8-4. The tax imposed by this Code section shall not apply to annuity considerations; and
  (2) Municipal corporations whose ordinances have been filed with the Commissioner are authorized to impose a tax on each life insurance company doing business within the state, which tax shall be based solely upon the gross direct premiums, as defined in Code Section 33-8-4, which are received during the preceding calendar year from policies insuring persons residing within the corporate limits of the municipal corporation pursuant to the provisions of this Code section; provided, however, that the rate of the tax may not exceed 1 percent of the premiums. The tax imposed shall not apply to annuity considerations.
(c)
  (1) On March 1 of each year, each life insurance company shall file a certified return on a form prescribed by the Commissioner showing gross direct premiums received during the preceding calendar year that will appear in the company's certified annual statement.
  (2) Reserved.
  (3) On or before August 1 of each year, the Commissioner shall collect taxes imposed pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section on behalf of counties and municipal corporations whose ordinances have been filed with the Commissioner. The tax collected for each year shall be based upon gross direct premiums written during the preceding calendar year. Penalty and interest as prescribed in subsection (d) of Code Section 33-8-6 shall be imposed for late payment, underpayment, or nonpayment of such taxes.
(d) Taxes imposed by subsection (b) of this Code section shall be allocated and distributed to counties and municipal corporations as follows:
  (1) A portion of the total amount of life insurance premiums taxable by the state, exclusive of premiums collected by companies which qualify for the reduction to one-half of 1 percent of the state tax, shall be allocated to counties based upon the ratio that the total population of all unincorporated areas in the state bears to the total population in the state. The amount of the tax base so allocated to counties shall be taxed at the rate levied for county purposes. The tax shall be distributed to each county governing authority by the Commissioner based upon a fraction, the numerator of which is the population of the unincorporated area of that county and the denominator of which is the population of all unincorporated areas of the state; and
  (2) A portion of the total amount of life insurance premiums taxable by the state shall be allocated to all municipal corporations based upon the ratio that the total population of all municipal corporations bears to the total state population. The amount of the tax base so allocated to municipalities shall be distributed to each municipal corporation based upon the fraction, the numerator of which is the population of that municipal corporation and the denominator of which is the population of all municipal corporations in the state. The amount of the tax base so distributed to each municipality shall be taxed at the rate levied by that municipality; and taxes levied by each municipal corporation shall be distributed based upon the tax rate levied by each such municipal corporation.
(e) On or before January 1 of the first year that the tax is levied, each municipal corporation levying the tax shall file with the Commissioner a certified copy of the pertinent parts of all ordinances and amendments thereto which impose the tax, and such filing shall be a condition to the validity and enforceability of such an ordinance. On or before February 1 of each year the Commissioner shall furnish a list of all municipal corporations levying the tax for that year to each life insurance company in the state.
(f) Life insurance companies may deduct from premium taxes otherwise payable to this state under Code Section 33-8-4, in addition to all credits and abatements allowed by law, the taxes imposed pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section and paid to the Commissioner on behalf of any county and municipal corporation during the preceding calendar year.
(g) On or before October 15 of each year, the Commissioner shall distribute the taxes imposed by counties and municipal corporations which are actually remitted to and collected by the Commissioner. On or before October 15 of each year, the Commissioner shall distribute any delinquent taxes actually collected by the Commissioner for a previous year, exclusive of any interest or penalty on such delinquent taxes, which delinquent taxes have not previously been distributed.
(h) For purposes of this Code section, population shall be measured by the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census plus any corrections or revisions contained in official statements by the United States Bureau of the Census made prior to the first day of September immediately preceding the distribution of the proceeds of such taxes by the Commissioner and any additional official census data received by the Commissioner from the United States Bureau of the Census or its successor agency pertaining to any newly incorporated municipality. Such corrections, revisions, or additional data shall be certified to the Commissioner by the Office of Planning and Budget on or before August 31 of each year.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-43, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 128,§ 2, eff. 5/4/2009.
See 2009 Ga. Laws 128, § 6.
