# § 47-12-42. Spouses' benefits coverage; payments required for such coverage; effect of spouse's death, divorce, or remarriage

(a) Any district attorney who is married shall pay into the fund an amount equal to 2 1/2 percent of his state salary for each year of service, up to a maximum of 19 years, for spouses' benefits coverage. Such payment shall entitle his surviving spouse to receive from the State of Georgia, for life or until remarriage, a sum equal to 50 percent of the benefits which he was receiving on the date of his death, if retired at such time, or which he would have been eligible to receive had he retired as of that date if he had 19 years of creditable service as of the date of his death. If such district attorney had completed spouses' contributions for at least ten years of creditable service as a district attorney, but for less than 19 years of creditable service as of the date of his death, his surviving spouse who is eligible for such benefits under this Code section shall be entitled to receive, for life or until remarriage, a sum equal to the amount determined by multiplying one-half of the benefit he would have been entitled to receive upon completion of 19 years of creditable service without change in the salary he was receiving at the time of his death times the fraction which his creditable service bears to 19 years. Those members with more than 19 years of creditable service shall utilize the salary level of the most recent 19 years of service when determining the contribution for spouses' benefits. Any member who was compensated by the fee system prior to 1969 shall pay the required 2 1/2 percent contribution for spouses' benefits on the basis of $9,000.00 per annum, if such fees were less than that amount, or on the basis of the actual fees received, if more than $9,000.00 per annum, up to a maximum of $18,000.00 as the basis for such contributions. In addition to such contributions, a member obtaining spouses' benefits shall pay interest on such contributions at the rate of 5 percent compounded annually up to the date of payment of such contributions. All contributions to obtain creditable service for the purpose of spouses' benefits, plus interest thereon, shall be paid by March 24, 1982. A member who is not married shall not be required to make contributions as provided in this Code section for spouses' benefits; but if such member subsequently marries, he shall be required to begin making contributions for spouses' benefits and shall also make such contributions for prior service within two years after becoming married. If the spouse of a member dies or if a member becomes divorced, contributions for spouses' benefits shall cease upon notice to the board of trustees from the member of such death or divorce; but if such member subsequently remarries, he shall notify the board of trustees of such remarriage, and contributions for spouses' benefits shall be reinstated. If a member ceases making contributions for spouses' benefits for any reason, there shall be no return to the member of contributions for such spouses' benefits.
(b) Any other provision of subsection (a) of this Code section or any other provision of this chapter to the contrary notwithstanding, any married district attorney emeritus receiving an emeritus salary on July 1, 1992, who was married for at least one year prior to that date and whose spouse is not otherwise eligible for spouses' benefits shall have the option to reduce his emeritus salary by 10 percent and establish a surviving spouse's benefit equal to one-half of the reduced emeritus salary. Upon the death of a district attorney emeritus who exercised such option, the spouse's benefit provided for in this subsection shall be paid to the surviving spouse in equal monthly installments for life or until the surviving spouse remarries. The option for spouses' benefits for district attorneys emeritus provided for in this subsection must be exercised in writing to the board of trustees by not later than December 31, 1992.
