# § 42-9-46. Cases in which inmate has failed to serve time required for automatic initial consideration; objections

When the board considers a case in which an inmate has not served the time required by Code Section 42-9-45 for automatic initial parole consideration, the board shall notify in writing, at least ten days prior to such early consideration, the sentencing judge, the district attorney of the circuit in which the inmate was sentenced, and any victim of a violation of Chapter 5 of Title 16 or, if such victim is deceased, the spouse, children, or parents of the deceased victim if such person's contact information has been provided to the board with a current mailing or email address and telephone number. Such notice shall provide a time frame in which such individuals may file an objection to early parole consideration. The sentencing judge, district attorney, or victim or, if such victim is deceased, the spouse, children, or parents of the deceased victim shall be given notice of a hearing date if a hearing will be held and, in order to express their views and make their recommendation as to whether the inmate should be granted early parole, may appear at such hearing or may make a written statement to the board. If an objection was filed and the board grants early parole, it shall issue a statement explaining its reasoning for granting such parole and such statement shall be served on any party who filed an objection.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 42, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 226,§ 2-13, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 43,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2015.
