# § 42-9-44.3. Definitions; required community service; liability; work during periods of natural disaster

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Agency employee" means an employee or agent of a community service agency, whether the individual is a paid or unpaid employee or agent.
  (2) "Community service" means uncompensated work by an offender with a community service agency for the benefit of the community pursuant to a directive of the State Board of Pardons and Paroles or its designee as a condition of parole or as an alternative to the revocation of parole.
  (3) "Community service agency" means any private or public agency or organization approved by the State Board of Pardons and Paroles to participate in a community service program.
  (4) "Community service supervisor" means an individual who places or supervises offenders directed to perform community service, whether the individual is a paid or unpaid supervisor.
  (5) "Offender" means a person who has been convicted of a crime, who is under the jurisdiction of the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, and who has been granted conditional executive clemency.
(b) The State Board of Pardons and Paroles or its designee may direct an offender to perform community service as a condition of parole or as an alternative to the revocation of parole.
(c) Neither the community service agency nor the community service supervisor or agency employees shall be liable to any offender performing community service for any acts or omissions related to participation in a community service program. This limitation of liability does not apply to any act or omission by any community service agency, community service supervisor, or agency employee that constitutes gross negligence or willful misconduct.
(d) It shall be unlawful to use or to allow an offender to be used for any purpose resulting in private gain to an individual, but this subsection shall not apply to work on private property made necessary due to a natural disaster if the work is approved by the State Board of Pardons and Paroles.
