# § 42-9-13. Reinstatement of incapacitated member upon recovery

(a) Whenever the Governor has personal knowledge or receives information deemed by him to be reliable that a member of the board who has been determined to be incapacitated to perform the duties of his office has overcome his incapacity, that his incapacity has been removed, or that his incapacity has ceased, the Governor shall call the council that previously examined the member of the board who was found to be incapacitated to perform the duties of his office or shall call a council comprised of the persons set forth in Code Section 42-9-12. Whenever the council has knowledge or receives information deemed by the members to be reliable that the member of the board who has been determined to be incapacitated to perform the duties of his office has overcome his incapacity, that his incapacity has been removed, or that his incapacity has ceased, the members may call themselves into session for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not the member of the board is in fact able to resume the performance of the duties of his office.
(b) If the Governor calls the council, he shall inform the council of the information that has caused him to believe that the person is able to resume the performance of the duties of his office. If the council or a majority thereof, after full investigation and examination into the truth of the information furnished by the Governor or otherwise given to the council, shall, in writing duly signed, find that the incapacity of the member has ceased and that the member is capable of assuming the performance of the duties of his office, the Governor shall execute an executive order relating such facts. The member shall thereafter assume and perform the duties of his office and the term of the member of the board appointed to perform the duties of the previously incapacitated member shall terminate.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-5, eff. 7/1/2009.
