# § 42-9-9. Board employees; "disability" defined; awarding of badges

(a) The board may appoint such clerical, stenographic, supervisory, and expert assistants and may establish such qualifications for its employees as it deems necessary. In its discretion, the board may discharge such employees.
(b) An employee leaving the service of the board under honorable conditions who has accumulated 20 or more years of service with the board, or 20 or more years of combined service as a parole officer with the board, a probation officer or supervisor with the Department of Corrections, or a community supervision officer with the department, shall be entitled as part of such employee's compensation to retain his or her board issued weapon and badge.
(c)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "disability" means a disability that prevents an individual from working as a parole officer.
  (2) When a parole officer leaves the employment of the board as a result of a disability arising in the line of duty, such parole officer shall be entitled as part of such parole officer's compensation to retain his or her weapon and badge in accordance with rules and regulations promulgated by the board.
(d) A parole officer killed in the line of duty shall be entitled to have his or her board issued badge given to a surviving family member.
(e) The board shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations for the implementation of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 524,§ 4, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-82, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 22,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 458,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2008.
