# § 42-9-12. Appointment of replacement for incapacitated member; calling of appointing council by Governor; immunity of council from civil or criminal liability

(a) Whenever the Governor has personal knowledge or receives information deemed by him to be reliable that any member of the board, by reason of illness or other providential cause, is unable to perform the duties of his office, he shall call a council to be composed of the president of the Medical Association of Georgia, the president of the State Bar of Georgia, and the commissioner of public health for the purpose of ascertaining whether or not any member of the board is in fact unable to perform the duties of his office. In the event the president of the Medical Association of Georgia is disqualified or unable for any cause to serve on the council, he shall appoint some other member of the Medical Association of Georgia, preferably an elected officer therein, to serve in his place and stead; and he shall notify the Governor of his appointee. In the event the president of the State Bar of Georgia is disqualified or unable for any cause to serve on the council, he shall appoint some other member of the State Bar of Georgia, preferably an elected officer therein, to serve in his place and stead; and he shall notify the Governor of his appointee. In the event the commissioner of public health is disqualified or unable for any cause to serve on the council, the chairman of the Board of Public Health, if he is a physician licensed to practice under Chapter 34 of Title 43, shall serve in place of the commissioner. If both the commissioner and the chairman are disqualified or unable for any cause to serve on the council, the chairman shall designate a member of the Board of Public Health who is a physician licensed to practice under Chapter 34 of Title 43 to serve on the council. The chairman shall notify the Governor of his appointee.
(b) The Governor shall inform the council, appointed pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, of the information which has caused him to believe that a member of the board is unable to perform the duties of his office. If the council or a majority thereof, after a full investigation and examination into the truth of such information, shall, in writing duly signed, find that a member is incapacitated to perform the duties of his office, the Governor shall execute an executive order relating such facts. The member shall thereupon be suspended from performing the duties of his office and the Governor shall appoint a person to perform the duties of such member of the board during his incapacity.
(c) The person appointed to perform the duties of a member of the board shall give bond with good security as required of other members of the board, shall be given the same oath of office as other members of the board, and shall be issued a commission as a member of the board, which shall be effective so long as the person performs the duties of a member of the board. Upon giving the bond and taking the oath as required by this Code section, and upon being issued his commission as authorized in this Code section, the person shall be authorized to do everything, perform every act, and exercise every prerogative and discretion that any other member of the board might do, perform, or exercise under existing law.
(d) The person appointed to serve as a member of the board in the place and stead of an incapacitated member shall be subject to the confirmation of the Senate, if the Senate is in session at the time of his appointment or convenes in session prior to the expiration of his appointment. Any such appointment made at times when the Senate is not in session shall be effective ad interim.
(e) During the period of incapacity of a member of the board, the member shall be entitled to receive the compensation and such other benefits as may be provided by law or otherwise for members of the board.
(f) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the appointee may be an elected official, appointed official, or employee of this state. The order appointing the person to serve in the place and stead of any incapacitated member shall include his compensation. The compensation to be received by such person shall not exceed the compensation received by other members of the board.
(g) No member of the council designated pursuant to this Code section shall be civilly or criminally liable for his actions and doings as a member of the council. This provision may be pleaded as an absolute defense in any civil or criminal proceedings relative thereto.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-5, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-4, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
