# § 42-9-9.1. Assistance to law enforcement, correctional, or homeland security agencies; conferring powers of law enforcement officers by the board

(a) In order to assist in the preservation of peace, order, and security, governmental officials from law enforcement, correctional, or homeland security agencies of federal, state, or local governments may request assistance from the board. For the purpose of providing the requested assistance, a majority of the members of the board may confer all powers of a law enforcement officer of this state, including, but not limited to, the power to make arrests for violations of any of the criminal laws of this state, upon any person who is employed by the board and who is otherwise certified as a peace officer under the provisions of Chapter 8 of Title 35.
(b) Before the board grants the powers of a law enforcement officer authorized in subsection (a) of this Code section, the board must find that extraordinary circumstances exist that necessitate additional law enforcement officers.
(c) The time period for the law enforcement officer powers authorized in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be specified when the powers are bestowed, not to exceed 30 days.
(d) While possessing the powers of a law enforcement officer authorized in subsection (a) of this Code section, the board employee shall be under the direction of the federal, state, or local government entity requesting assistance from the board.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 381,§ 1, eff. 5/10/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 506, § 1, eff. 5/13/2004.
