# § 42-9-44. Terms and conditions of parole; adoption of general and special rules; violation of parole; certain parolees or releasees to obtain high school diploma or state approved high school equivalency (HSE)

(a) The board, upon placing a person on parole or conditional release, shall specify in writing the terms and conditions thereof, and if such person is serving a split sentence, the board's conditions shall include all of the terms of probation imposed by the sentencing court. A certified copy of the conditions shall be given to the parolee or conditional releasee. Thereafter, a copy shall be sent to the clerk of the court in which the person was convicted. The board shall adopt general rules concerning the terms and conditions of parole or conditional release and concerning what shall constitute a violation thereof and shall make special rules to govern particular cases. The rules, both general and special, may include, among other things, a requirement that the parolee or conditional releasee shall not leave this state or any definite area in this state without the consent of the board; that the parolee or conditional releasee shall contribute to the support of his or her dependents to the best of the parolee's or conditional releasee's ability; that the parolee or conditional releasee shall make reparation or restitution for his or her crime; that the parolee or conditional releasee shall abandon evil associates and ways; and that the parolee or conditional releasee shall carry out the instructions of his or her community supervision officer, and, in general, so comport himself or herself as the community supervision officer shall determine. A violation of the terms of parole or conditional release may render the parolee or conditional releasee liable to arrest and a return to a penal institution to serve out the term for which the parolee or conditional releasee was sentenced.
(b) Each parolee or conditional releasee who does not have a high school diploma or a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma shall be required as a condition of parole or conditional release to obtain a high school diploma or state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma or to pursue a trade at a vocational or technical school. Any such parolee or conditional releasee who demonstrates to the satisfaction of the board an existing ability or skill which does in fact actually furnish the parolee or conditional releasee a reliable, regular, and sufficient income shall not be subject to this subsection. Any parolee or conditional releasee who is determined by the department or the board to be incapable of completing such requirements shall only be required to attempt to improve his or her basic educational skills. Failure of any parolee or conditional releasee subject to this requirement to attend the necessary schools or courses or to make reasonable progress toward fulfillment of such requirement shall be grounds for revocation of parole or conditional release. The board shall establish regulations regarding reasonable progress as required by this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 726,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 226,§ 2-12, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-87, eff. 7/1/2015.
