# § 25-13-3. Definitions

(1) "Badge" means any official badge used in the past or present by members of municipal, county, or volunteer fire departments.
(2) "Department" means any municipal, county, or volunteer fire department.
(3) "Director of public safety" means the director of public safety for any municipal, county, or volunteer fire department.
(4) "Emblem" means any official patch or other emblem worn currently or formerly or used by the department to identify the department or its employees.
(5) "Fire chief" means the fire chief for any municipal, county, or volunteer fire department.
(6) "Fire department" means any fire department which is authorized to exercise the general and emergency powers enumerated in Code Sections 25-3-1 and 25-3-2. Such term also means any department, agency, organization, or company operating in this state with the intent and purpose of carrying out the duties, functions, powers, and responsibilities normally associated with a fire department. These duties, functions, powers, and responsibilities include but are not limited to the protection of life and property against fire, explosions, or other hazards.
(7) "Local governing body" means, for a county, a county governing authority as defined in Code Section 1-3-3; for a municipal corporation, the governing authority of a municipal corporation as set forth in the municipal corporation's charter; or, for a volunteer fire department, the board of directors or other governing body of such department by whatever name called.
(8) "Person" means any person, corporation, organization, or political subdivision of this state.
(9) "Volunteer fire department" means a fire department which has been issued a certificate of compliance pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 3 of this title and which consists of uncompensated or part-time firefighters.
(10) "Willful violator" means any person who knowingly violates the provisions of this chapter. Any person who violates this chapter after being advised in writing by the fire chief, the director of public safety, or the local governing authority that such person's activity is in violation of this chapter shall be considered a willful violator and shall be considered in willful violation of this chapter. Any person whose agent or representative is a willful violator and who has knowledge of the violation by the agent or representative shall also be considered a willful violator and shall be considered in willful violation of this chapter, unless, upon learning of the violation, he or she immediately terminates the agency or other relationship with such violator.
