# § 17-10-6.3. Disposition of cases currently under review by three-judge panel; duties and responsibilities of the president of The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia with respect to abolishing the three-judge panel

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "three-judge panel" means the three-judge panel that was created and existed pursuant to the former provisions of Code Section 17-10-6 as it existed on June 30, 2007, which reviewed certain sentences to determine if a sentence was excessively harsh and what relief, if any, should be given.
(b) The right of a defendant to have a sentence reviewed by a three-judge panel shall be terminated for sentences imposed by a trial or appellate court on or after July 1, 2007. No new application for review of a sentence shall be transmitted to the three-judge panel on or after July 1, 2007, except for cases in which a sentence was imposed prior to July 1, 2007.
(c) No new application for review of a sentence shall be accepted by the three-judge panel unless such application has been received by the three-judge panel on or before September 1, 2007. Any sentence that has an application for review with the three-judge panel pending on September 1, 2007, shall have such review completed by the three-judge panel by November 1, 2008.
(d) It shall be the duty of the president of The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia to cause all administrative measures which may be necessary to conclude the business of the three-judge panel to be completed no later than January 1, 2009. Such administrative, clerical, or secretarial personnel as may be assigned to provide support for the three-judge panel may continue to be employed for the purpose of providing support to the president of The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia until January 1, 2009.
(e) No later than January 1, 2009, all records and documents relating to the activities of the three-judge panels during the period July 1, 1974, through November 1, 2008, shall be transmitted to the Division of Archives and History for retention in accordance with Article 5 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, the "Georgia Records Act." All equipment, supplies, and materials which the president of The Council of Superior Court Judges of Georgia determines are excess or surplus shall be distributed by the president to the judges of the superior courts for use in the performance of their official duties. Any fees or expenses due to any clerk, superior court judge, or other person as a result of the three-judge panel shall be paid out of such funds as are appropriated for the operation of the superior courts during fiscal year 2009.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 184,§ 2-6, eff. 5/6/2013.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 327,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2007.
