# § 20-5-51. Dissolution of or withdrawal from a library system

(a) A library system shall be dissolved by a reversal of procedures followed in its original organization. A majority of the board members in a majority of the counties must agree to the dissolution of the system. One county in a multicounty system may withdraw by a reversal of the procedure by which the county became a member.
(b) If the local constitution and bylaws or participating agreement does not specify a notification period for withdrawal, the proper notice shall be sent six months prior to the end of the state fiscal year. This notice must include reasons for the withdrawal and the method by which the decision was reached and must be sent to the chairman of the system board of trustees and the system library director. The Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia must be notified of the receipt of this letter of intent within five working days.
(c) Upon dissolution or withdrawal, no further state or federal grant funds shall be paid for or to the dissolving or withdrawing unit or units until such time as the unit or units reestablish the library or libraries pursuant to this part and meet eligibility requirements for such grant funds.
(d) A multicounty regional system may elect to expel a member county upon the following conditions:
  (1) Failure of the county to maintain the agreed level of support to the regional system as in the most recent system-participating agreement; or
  (2) Failure of the county to meet criteria which may jeopardize the system's eligibility for state or federal funds.
(e) If the system's constitution and bylaws or participating agreement fails to describe a notice period for expulsion, the proper notice shall be sent not less than six months prior to the end of the state fiscal year. This notice must be sent to the chairperson of the county board of trustees, all funding agencies party to the participating agreement, the system library director, and the Office of Public Library Services of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia.
(f) Upon total dissolution of a library system, all property shall be disposed of as provided in this part.
