# § 20-5-42. Membership of boards of trustees

(a) A county board of trustees shall consist of at least one appointee from each governmental agency financially supporting the library on a regular basis. Appointments shall be made in writing pursuant to the constitution and bylaws of the library system, shall be transmitted to the appointee and to the library, and shall state the length of term and expiration date of the appointment.
(b) A regional board of library trustees shall consist of trustees serving on member county boards who are appointed to the regional board by each county board for a term specified in writing pursuant to the constitution and bylaws of the library system.
(c) Board members shall serve staggered terms for continuity of service.
(d) Board members shall be removed for cause or for failure to attend three consecutive meetings pursuant to the library system's constitution and bylaws or the local constitution and bylaws.
(e) Vacancies shall be filled in the same manner as appointments are made. If a vacancy occurs prior to the expiration of a trustee's term, the new appointee shall complete the unexpired term.
(f) Members of the governing authority of any county, municipality, or governmental agency financially supporting the library shall be eligible for appointment and service as members or as ex officio members of the board of trustees of any library or library system. No such governing authority shall appoint a majority of its members to the board of trustees of any library or library system nor shall a majority of the board of trustees of any library or library system consist of members of the governing authority of any single county, municipality, or governmental agency.
(g) Public library system boards of trustees may provide for ex officio board membership in the system constitution and bylaws.
