# § 33-29A-34. Certain language required in policies and policy applications

(a) Each written application for a policy sold pursuant to this article shall contain the following language in boldface type at the beginning of the document: "The benefits of this policy may primarily be governed by the laws of a state other than Georgia; therefore, all of the laws applicable to policies filed in this state may not apply to this policy. Any purchase of individual health insurance should be considered carefully since future medical conditions may make it impossible to qualify for another individual health insurance policy."
(b) Each policy sold pursuant to this article shall contain the following language in boldface type at the beginning of the document: "The benefits of this policy providing your coverage may be governed primarily by the laws of a state other than Georgia. The benefits covered may be different from other policies you can purchase. Please consult your insurance agent or insurer to determine which health benefits are covered under this policy."
(c) Each individual accident and sickness policy sold pursuant to this article shall contain a side-by-side chart that compares the definitions of each benefit covered by the policy that has been sold in the other state with the definitions of the benefits covered under current Georgia laws and regulations where the specified benefit is similarly termed but defined differently.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 249,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
