# § 33-29A-33. Satisfaction of actuarial standards set by National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC)

(a) Any insurer selling an insurance policy pursuant to this article, and any policy approved pursuant to this article, shall satisfy actuarial standards set forth by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) and any regulation promulgated by the Commissioner that is not inconsistent with such NAIC standards. Any insurer selling an insurance policy pursuant to this article, and any policy approved pursuant to this article, shall, except as otherwise provided in this article, comply with the requirements of this title and the regulations promulgated by the Commissioner.
(b) The Commissioner shall have the authority to determine whether an insurer satisfies the standards required by this Code section and may not approve a plan that he or she finds lacks compliance with this Code section. The Commissioner shall have the authority to determine whether the plan sold pursuant to this article continues to satisfy the requirements set forth in this Code section in the same manner as he or she does with an individual accident and sickness insurance policy approved pursuant to another applicable chapter in this title.
(c) Any policy sold pursuant to this article shall comply with paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of Code Section 9-9-2 and shall not require the insured or his or her beneficiary to arbitrate disputes arising under the policy.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 249,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
