# § 33-29A-4. Georgia Health Insurance Assignment System

(a) Each eligible individual in this state whose most recent creditable coverage was provided by an entity other than a managed care organization shall be entitled to participate in the Georgia Health Insurance Assignment System (sometimes referred to as GHIAS in this chapter) created pursuant to this Code section. Each eligible individual in this state whose most recent creditable coverage was provided by a managed care organization shall be entitled to participate in the Georgia Health Benefits Assignment System created pursuant to Code Section 33-29A-5.
(b) The Commissioner shall develop the GHIAS system which shall provide for the equitable assignment of eligible individuals who are entitled to and desirous of participating in the system to health insurers offering coverage in the individual market in the state. Such assignment shall be based primarily on the pro rata volume of individual health insurance business done in this state by each such health insurer. The system may include other factors for equitable assignment, as determined to be appropriate by the Commissioner, including but not limited to the geographic area or areas in the state normally served by a health insurer.
(c) Upon assignment of an eligible individual to a health insurer, the eligible individual shall have the right to purchase and the health insurer shall have the obligation to sell either of the standard health insurance policies provided for in subsection (d) of this Code section at a premium not to exceed the maximum specified in said subsection.
(d) The Commissioner shall develop two standard health insurance policies to be provided by health insurers to which eligible individuals are assigned pursuant to this Code section. The actuarial value of the benefits under each such coverage shall be at least 85 percent of the average actuarial value of the benefits provided by all individual health insurance coverage issued by all issuers in the state. Except to the extent specifically provided to the contrary in this chapter, all laws of this state relating to the normal provision of such coverage in the individual market shall apply to the provision of such coverage under this chapter. The Commissioner shall fix a maximum premium to be charged for each such standard policy which shall be not more than 150 percent of the average premium which is or would be charged by all issuers in the state for the same or similar coverage issued other than under this Code section, as determined by the Commissioner. The Commissioner may authorize a health insurer to charge a premium in excess of said 150 percent maximum if and only if the insurer demonstrates to the Commissioner that the application of the 150 percent maximum would endanger the financial solvency of that health insurer.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require a health insurer to offer to an eligible individual any coverage other than one of the two standard health insurance plans developed under subsection (d) of this Code section. Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit any insurer from offering to any individual any otherwise lawful coverage.
