# § 50-23-9. Review of contracts and agreements by Environmental Protection Division or Georgia Land Conservation Council

(a) Except as otherwise provided by Article 6 of Chapter 5 of Title 12, the authority shall not enter into any contract or agreement with any local government with respect to the financing of any environmental facility pursuant to this article, unless the director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources shall have completed all existing statutory reviews and approvals with respect to such project. Nothing in this article shall be construed to diminish the full authority and responsibility of the director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources for existing statutory reviews and approvals.
(b) The authority shall not enter into any contract or agreement with any local government or the Department of Natural Resources with respect to the financing, by loan or grant, of any community land conservation project or state land conservation project pursuant to Chapter 22 of Title 36 unless the Georgia Land Conservation Council has approved the community land conservation project or state land conservation project and the chairperson has directed the authority to execute the approval decision of the Georgia Land Conservation Council. Nothing in this article shall be construed to diminish the full authority and responsibility of the Georgia Land Conservation Council's existing statutory reviews and approvals.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 578,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 535,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2006.
