# § 50-23-28. Establishment of Georgia Reservoir Fund; administration; report

(a) There shall be established the Georgia Reservoir Fund, to consist of proceeds of bonds issued under this article for purposes of this part, any moneys paid to the authority under intergovernmental contracts for purposes of this part, voluntary contributions to such fund, and any federal moneys deposited in such fund. Moneys which are restricted as to their usage, including, but not limited to, restrictions on the kinds of projects for which the moneys may be expended or loaned, on the entity that may receive grants or loans of such moneys, on the manner in which such moneys may be expended or loaned, and any other condition, limitation, or restriction, may nevertheless be deposited in the fund so long as any such restriction shall not prevent the moneys so deposited from being expended, loaned, or otherwise used in a manner that is consistent with the purposes of this part. All balances in the fund shall be deposited in interest-bearing accounts.
(b) The authority shall administer the fund and may use the fund for projects as defined by Code Section 12-5-471, in accordance with this article and Article 6 of Chapter 5 of Title 12.
(c) The authority shall prepare, by September 30 of each year, an accounting of the moneys received and expended from the fund for the most recently completed fiscal year. The report shall be made available electronically to the members of the General Assembly and shall be public record.
(d) Principal and interest payments on loans made from the fund may be deferred for a maximum of 20 years or until construction of the project is completed, whichever is later.
(e) The authority may expend moneys from the fund for the costs of planning, engineering, architectural, legal, title, fiscal, or economic investigation, studies, surveys, or designs without the designation of such funds to a specific project or the final regulatory or statutory review and approval of such project if the director determines that a reasonable expectation exists that the expenditure of such funds will further the purposes of this part or Article 6 of Chapter 5 of Title 12.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 578,§ 2-6, eff. 7/1/2008.
