# § 50-23-2. Legislative intent; assumption of rights, duties, and assets of the Georgia Development Authority

(a) It is found and declared that the availability of adequate environmental facilities is an important element in the ability of a community to provide for the continuing economic growth and development that provide jobs for the state's citizens. It is also recognized that many communities lack the financial resources to provide for the needed facilities that both protect the environment and provide for such future economic expansion. Financial assistance is an important aid for the local governments in meeting these needs and it is declared in the public interest and for the public benefit and good and is so desired as a matter of legislative intent.
(b) It is the purpose and intent of this article to provide an instrumentality to assist in constructing, extending, rehabilitating, repairing, and renewing environmental facilities and to assist in the financing of such needs by providing grants, loans, bonds, and other assistance to local governments and instrumentalities of the state.
(c) The authority shall receive all assets of the Georgia Development Authority held immediately prior to the creation of the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority except those assets received under the provisions of Public Law 499, Eighty-first Congress, Second Session, or funds or assets derived from such funds or assets. The authority shall be responsible for any contracts, leases, agreements, or other obligations entered into regarding the environmental facilities projects of the Georgia Development Authority prior to the creation of the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority and the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority is substituted as party to any such contract, agreement, lease, or other obligation and shall be responsible for performance thereon as if it had been the original party and shall be entitled to all benefits and rights of enforcement by any other parties to such contracts, agreements, leases, or other obligations.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 634,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 378, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
