# § 33-41-103. Incorporated protected cells; legal entity status; requirements for formation; naming; rights and authority

(a) A sponsored captive insurance company licensed under this chapter may establish and maintain one or more protected cells to insure or reinsure risks subject to the provisions, terms, and conditions set forth in this chapter, and it is the intent of the General Assembly to provide sponsored captive insurance companies with the option to establish one or more protected cells as incorporated protected cells without limiting any rights or protections applicable to unincorporated protected cells.
(b) The creation of a protected cell pursuant to this chapter does not create, with respect to such protected cell, a legal person separate from the sponsored captive insurance company of which it is a part unless such protected cell is an incorporated protected cell.
(c) In addition to the provisions required by subparagraphs (c)(1)(B) and (c)(1)(C) of Code Section 33-41-5, an incorporated protected cell must also include the following in its formation documents:
  (1) A reference to the sponsored captive insurance company of which it will be a part; and
  (2) A statement that the entity is a protected cell incorporated for the limited purposes authorized by the sponsored captive insurance company's certificate of authority.
(d) An incorporated protected cell shall not use any name that is either similar, misleading, or confusing with respect to any other name already in use by any other entity doing business in this state.
(e) An incorporated protected cell shall be entitled to enter into contracts and undertake obligations in its own name and for its own account unless prohibited by an applicable participant contract. In the case of a contract or obligation undertaken directly by an incorporated protected cell to which the sponsored captive insurance company is not a party, either in its own name and for its own account or on behalf of a protected cell, the counterparts to the contract or obligation shall have no right or recourse against the sponsored captive insurance company, any other protected cell not a party to such contract or obligation or any assets other than against assets properly attributable to the incorporated protected cell that is a party to the contract or obligation.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 33, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 186,§ 2-14, eff. 7/1/2019.
