# § 33-41-20. Exclusion from insolvency funds; participation in FAIR plan or joint underwriting association; assessment for payments to Subsequent Injury Trust Fund

(a)
  (1) No captive insurance company other than an association or industrial insured captive insurance company issuing workers' compensation insurance contracts shall be permitted to join or contribute financially to the Georgia Insurers Insolvency Pool under Chapter 36 of this title or any other plan, pool, or association guaranty or insolvency fund in this state. Other than an association or industrial insured captive insurance company issuing workers' compensation insurance contracts, no captive insurance company, or its insureds or claimants against its insureds, nor its parent or any affiliated company shall receive any benefit from the Georgia Insurers Insolvency Pool or any other plan, pool, or association guaranty or insolvency fund for claims arising out of the operations of such captive insurance company.
  (2) No captive insurance company shall be required to participate in any FAIR Plan established and maintained in this state under Chapter 33 of this title.
  (3) No captive insurance company shall be required to participate in any joint underwriting association established and maintained in this state under Chapter 9 of this title.
(b) Captive insurance companies shall be assessed on the same basis as self-insurers for the purpose of payments to the Subsequent Injury Trust Fund as described in Chapter 9 of Title 34.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 132,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2008.
