# § 33-41-16. Examination by Commissioner or agent; confidentiality

(a) The Commissioner or his or her designated agent may visit each captive insurance company at any time and examine its affairs in order to ascertain its financial condition, its ability to fulfill its contractual obligations, and its compliance with this chapter. For these purposes, the Commissioner or his or her designated agent shall have free access to all of the books and records relating to the business of the captive insurance company. The expenses and charges of any examination conducted pursuant to this Code section shall be paid directly by the captive insurance company examined.
(b) When necessary or desirable to assist in any examination under this Code section, the Commissioner may retain such independent agents as described in subsection (b) of Code Section 33-41-10, as the Commissioner deems appropriate, in order to facilitate his or her examination under this Code section. The expenses and charges of such persons so retained or designated shall be paid directly by the captive insurance company. The provision of subsection (g) of Code Section 33-2-14 shall apply to examinations of any captive insurance company.
(c) All portions of license applications reasonably designated confidential by or on behalf of an applicant pure or agency captive insurance company, all information and documents, and any copies of the foregoing, produced or obtained by or submitted or disclosed to the Commissioner pursuant to this chapter that are reasonably designated confidential by a pure or agency captive insurance company, and all examination reports, preliminary examination reports, working papers, recorded information, other documents, and any copies of any of the foregoing, produced or obtained by or submitted or disclosed to the Commissioner pursuant to this chapter shall be given confidential treatment, except as to disclosures consented to by the pure or agency captive insurance company, and shall not be subject to subpoena, shall not be made public by the Commissioner, and shall not be provided or disclosed to any other person at any time except to:
  (1) Insurance commissioners of any state or of any foreign country or jurisdiction, provided that:
    (A) Such receiving party shall agree in writing to maintain the confidentiality of such information; and
    (B) The laws of the receiving party require such information to be and to remain confidential; or
  (2) A law enforcement official or agency of this state, any other state, or the United States of America so long as such official or agency agrees in writing to hold it confidential and in a manner consistent with this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 611,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 67,§ 1-5, eff. 7/1/2015.
