# § 28-4-1. Legislative Services Committee; creation; membership; compensation; meetings

(a) There is created the Legislative Services Committee, hereinafter called the committee, to be composed of the:
  (1) Speaker of the House of Representatives;
  (2) President of the Senate;
  (3) Chairperson of the Appropriations Committee of the Senate;
  (4) Chairperson of the Appropriations Committee of the House of Representatives;
  (5) Chairperson of the Judiciary Committee of the Senate;
  (6) Chairperson of the Judiciary Committee of the House of Representatives;
  (7) Chairperson of the Banking and Financial Institutions Committee of the Senate;
  (8) Chairperson of the Ways and Means Committee of the House of Representatives;
  (9) President Pro Tempore of the Senate;
  (10) Speaker Pro Tempore of the House of Representatives;
  (11) Majority leader of the Senate;
  (12) Majority leader of the House of Representatives;
  (13) Minority leader of the Senate;
  (14) Minority leader of the House of Representatives;
  (15) Secretary of the Senate; and
  (16) Clerk of the House of Representatives.
(b) The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate shall be cochairpersons; provided, however, that the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall be the presiding chairperson of the committee each odd-numbered year, and the President Pro Tempore of the Senate shall be the presiding chairperson of the committee each even-numbered year. The President of the Senate shall at all times serve as the vice chairperson.
(c) The Secretary of the Senate shall be secretary of the committee each odd-numbered year and the Clerk of the House of Representatives shall be the secretary of the committee each even-numbered year.
(d) The members of the committee shall receive no additional allowances for service on the committee while the General Assembly is in session; but, for each day spent in the performance of their duties under this chapter between sessions, the members shall receive the allowances authorized by law for legislative members of interim legislative committees.
(e) The committee shall meet at least twice during each calendar year. Additional meetings may be held upon the call of the presiding chairperson or upon the call of a majority of the members of the committee. Nine members of the committee shall constitute a quorum and the affirmative vote of a majority of those members present at a meeting of the committee, provided such members present constitute a quorum, shall be necessary to transact business of the committee. Every member of the committee including the presiding chairperson shall be entitled to vote on all matters requiring a vote of the committee. In the event that the presiding chairperson for the then-current year is unable to chair a called meeting of the committee, the committee shall be chaired by the other cochairperson.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 609,§ 5-1, eff. 1/1/2025.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 273, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
