# § 28-4-6. Employment, powers, and duties of legislative fiscal officer

(a) The Legislative Services Committee is authorized to employ a legislative fiscal officer for the legislative branch of government. The fiscal officer shall act as the bookkeeper-comptroller for the legislative branch of government and shall maintain an account of legislative expenditures and commitments. Such fiscal officer shall maintain an inventory of the equipment, furnishings, and nonexpendable items belonging to the legislative branch. Such fiscal officer shall prepare and sign vouchers pertaining to the expenditure of legislative funds. Such fiscal officer shall prepare and sign all warrants for the expenditure of funds appropriated to and available to the legislative branch of government. Such warrants shall be paid by the fiscal officer, and it shall not be necessary that they be countersigned by the comptroller general. All payments from funds appropriated to the legislative branch of government shall be made by the fiscal officer, and reference in any other law to any other official or person in connection with any duties pertaining to such payments shall be deemed to refer to the fiscal officer; all duties of any such other official or person in connection therewith are transferred to the fiscal officer. The fiscal officer shall be under such bond as the Legislative Services Committee shall prescribe, and the premium thereon shall be paid from funds appropriated to the legislative branch of government. The fiscal officer shall have such other duties as shall be prescribed by the committee.
(b) The legislative fiscal officer is authorized on behalf of the legislative branch to pay any properly authorized invoice which does not exceed $5,000.00; provided, however, that the legislative fiscal officer shall be authorized to pay any invoice for fees incurred for legal services not to exceed $12,000.00. Any invoice which exceeds $5,000.00, or $12,000.00 for fees incurred for legal services, shall not be paid by such fiscal officer without prior approval from the committee. The committee may provide for such approval to be given at meetings of the committee, or in writing between meetings by a majority of the members of the committee, or in such other manner as the committee may establish. All invoices shall contain in detail a description of the work performed, materials used or purchased, and any other information pertinent to the obligation. Before the fiscal officer may pay any invoice, a requisition or purchase order covering such invoice and signed by the person or persons authorized by the Legislative Services Committee to do so plus evidence of delivery must have been submitted to the fiscal officer. A list of all invoices which have been paid shall be submitted by the fiscal officer to the committee on a monthly basis.
(c) A majority vote of the total membership of the Legislative Services Committee shall be necessary to employ the legislative fiscal officer.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 609,§ 4-6, eff. 5/6/2024.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 28, eff. 4/24/2013.
