# § 50-32-15. Issuance of bonds

(a) In furtherance of the purposes of the authority, no project of the Georgia Rail Passenger Authority created by Article 9 of Chapter 9 of Title 46 which is located wholly or partly within the geographic area over which the authority has jurisdiction shall be commenced after May 6, 1999, unless such project is approved by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the authorized membership of the board of directors of the authority pursuant to a motion made for that purpose; provided, however, that where such project is an approved transportation control measure pursuant to an approved state implementation plan, such project may proceed consistent with applicable federal law and regulation.
(b) From time to time, by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the authorized membership of the board of directors of the authority, the authority may direct the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority to issue revenue bonds, bonds, notes, loans, credit agreements, or other obligations or facilities to finance, in whole or in part, any project or the cost of any project of the authority wholly or partly within the geographic area over which the authority has jurisdiction, by means of a loan, extension of credit, or grant from the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority to the authority, on such terms or conditions as shall be concluded between the two authorities.
(c) The Georgia Environmental Finance Authority shall be subordinate to the authority in all respects, with respect to authority projects, within the geographic area over which the authority has jurisdiction; and, in the event of any conflict with the provisions of Chapter 23 of this title, the provisions of this chapter shall prevail in all respects. It is expressly provided, however, that nothing in this Code section and nothing in this chapter shall be construed to permit in any manner the alteration, elimination, or impairment of any term, provision, covenant, or obligation imposed on any state authority, including but not limited to the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority, the State Road and Tollway Authority, the Georgia Regional Transportation Authority, or the Georgia Rail Passenger Authority, for the benefit of any owner or holder of any bond, note, or other obligation of any such authority.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 50, eff. 2/24/2013.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 634,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 50, eff. 4/14/2009.
