# § 50-32-3. Creation of authority and board; quorum; vacancies

(a) There is created the Georgia Regional Transportation Authority as a body corporate and politic, which shall be deemed an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation thereof, for purposes of managing or causing to be managed land transportation and air quality within certain areas of this state; and by that name, style, and title such body may contract and be contracted with and bring and defend actions in all courts of this state.
(b) The management of the business and affairs of the authority shall be vested in a board of directors, subject to the provisions of this chapter and to the provisions of bylaws adopted by the board as authorized by this chapter. The board of directors shall make bylaws governing its own operation and shall have the power to make bylaws, rules, and regulations for the government of the authority and the operation, management, and maintenance of such projects as the board may determine appropriate to undertake from time to time.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a majority of the members of the board then in office shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. The vote of a majority of the members of the board present at the time of the vote, if a quorum is present at such time, shall be the act of the board unless the vote of a greater number is required by law or by the bylaws of the board of directors. The board of directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the full board of directors, shall designate from among its members an executive committee and one or more other committees, each consisting of two or more members of the board, which shall have and exercise such authority as the board may delegate to it under such procedures as the board may direct by resolution establishing such committee or committees.
(d) No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of a majority of the appointed members from exercising all rights and performing all duties of the authority. The authority shall have perpetual existence. Any change in the name or composition of the authority shall in no way affect the vested rights of any person under this chapter or impair the obligations of any contracts existing under this chapter.
