# § 19-7-46.1. Effect of father's name or social security number on records as evidence of paternity; signed voluntary acknowledgment of paternity; certified copy of voluntary acknowledgment of paternity

(a) The appearance of the name or social security account number of the father, entered with his written consent, on the certificate of birth or a certified copy of such certificate or records on which the name of the alleged father was entered with his written consent from the vital records department of another state or the registration of the father, entered with his written consent, in the putative father registry of this state, pursuant to subsection (d) of Code Section 19-11-9, shall constitute a prima-facie case of establishment of paternity and the burden of proof shall shift to the putative father to rebut such in a proceeding for the determination of paternity.
(b) When both the mother and father have signed a voluntary acknowledgment of paternity in the presence of a notary public swearing or affirming the statements contained in the acknowledgment are true and such acknowledgment is filed with the State Office of Vital Records within 30 days of its execution and is recorded in the putative father registry established by subsection (d) of Code Section 19-11-9, the acknowledgment shall constitute a legal determination of paternity, subject to the right of any signatory to rescind the acknowledgment prior to the date of the support order, any other order adjudicating paternity, or 60 days from the signing of the agreement, whichever is earlier. Recording such information in the putative father registry shall constitute a legal determination of paternity for purposes of establishing a future order for support and other matters under Code Section 19-7-51. Acknowledgment of paternity shall establish the biological father, as such term is defined in Code Section 19-7-22, but shall not constitute a legal determination of legitimation pursuant to Code Section 19-7-22.
(c) After the 60 day rescission period specified in subsection (b) of this Code section, the signed voluntary acknowledgment of paternity may be challenged in court only on the basis of fraud, duress, or material mistake of fact, with the burden of proof on the person challenging the acknowledgment. The legal responsibilities of any signatory, including child support obligations, arising from the acknowledgment may not be suspended during the challenge, except for good cause shown.
(d) A copy of a signed voluntary acknowledgment of paternity shall be provided to any signatory upon request.
(e)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term:
    (A) "Child-placing agency" means an agency licensed as such pursuant to Chapter 5 of Title 49.
    (B) "Legal custodian" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 15-11-2.
    (C) "Local custodian" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 31-10-1.
    (D) "State registrar" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 31-10-1.
  (2) The state registrar or local custodian, upon receipt of a written application, shall issue a certified copy of voluntary acknowledgment of paternity in the state registrar's or local custodian's custody to:
    (A) The person who signed such acknowledgment and his or her guardian or temporary guardian;
    (B) The person whose paternity was acknowledged, if he or she is at least 18 years of age;
    (C) The guardian, temporary guardian, or legal custodian of the person whose paternity was acknowledged;
    (D) The living legal spouse or next of kin, the legal representative, or the person who in good faith has applied and produced a record of such application to become the legal representative of the person whose paternity is registered;
    (E) A court of competent jurisdiction upon its order or subpoena;
    (F) Any governmental agency, state or federal, provided that such certificate shall be needed for official purposes;
    (G) A member in good standing of the State Bar of Georgia, provided that such certificate shall be needed for purposes of legal investigation on behalf of a client; and
    (H) A child-placing agency, provided that such certificate shall be needed for official purposes.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 404,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 580,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2008.
