# § 15-21-148. Creation of the Brain and Spinal Injury Trust Fund

(a) There is created the Brain and Spinal Injury Trust Fund as a separate fund in the state treasury. The state treasurer shall credit to the trust fund all amounts transferred to such fund and shall invest the trust fund moneys in the same manner as authorized for investing other moneys in the state treasury.
(b) The commission may authorize the disbursement of available money from the trust fund, after appropriation thereof, for purposes of providing care and rehabilitative services to citizens of the state who have survived neurotrauma with head or spinal cord injuries, to a person, entity, or program eligible pursuant to criteria to be set by such commission. The commission may also authorize the disbursement of trust fund money for the actual and necessary operating expenses that the commission incurs in performing its duties; provided, however, that such disbursements shall be kept at a minimum in furtherance of the primary purpose of the trust fund which is to disburse money to provide care and rehabilitative services for persons with brain or spinal cord injuries.
(c) No funds shall be disbursed from the trust fund to any person, entity, or program or for any purpose authorized in subsection (b) of this Code section until approved by the Governor; provided, however, that the Governor may not authorize the disbursement of funds to a person, entity, or program which the commission has not recommended for a grant.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 748, § 8, eff. 7/1/2002.
