# § 15-21-209. [Effective until 7/1/2026] State operation assessment against adult entertainment establishments; determination of obligation; use of funds; administration

(a) By April 30 of each calendar year, each adult entertainment establishment shall pay to the commissioner of revenue a state operation assessment equal to the greater of 1 percent of the previous calendar year's gross revenue or $5,000.00. This state assessment shall be in addition to any other fees and assessments required by the county or municipality authorizing the operation of an adult entertainment business.
(b) The previous year's gross revenue of an adult entertainment establishment shall be determined based upon tax returns filed with the Department of Revenue. The commissioner of revenue may, by rule or regulation, require other reports or returns to be filed by an adult entertainment establishment as he or she deems appropriate.
(c) The assessments collected pursuant to this Code section shall be remitted to the Safe Harbor for Sexually Exploited Children Fund Commission, to be deposited into the Safe Harbor for Sexually Exploited Children Fund.
(d) The assessments imposed by this Code section shall be assessed and collected in the same manner as taxes due the state in Title 48 and appeals of such assessments shall be within the jurisdiction of the Georgia Tax Tribunal in accordance with Chapter 13A of Title 50.
(e) The commissioner of revenue shall be authorized to promulgate any rules and regulations he or she deems necessary to implement and administer the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 95,§ 3-1, eff. 1/1/2017.
This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
