# § 15-21-101. Collection of fines and authorized expenditures of funds from County Drug Abuse Treatment and Education Fund

(a) The sums provided for in Code Section 15-21-100 shall be collected by the clerk or court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the governing authority of the county in which the court is located upon receipt of the fine and assessment if paid in full at the time of sentencing or upon receipt of the final payment if the fine is paid in installments. Those sums paid over to the governing authority shall be deposited thereby into a special account to be known as the "County Drug Abuse Treatment and Education Fund."
(b) Moneys collected pursuant to this article and placed in the "County Drug Abuse Treatment and Education Fund" shall be expended by the governing authority of the county for which the fund is established solely and exclusively:
  (1) For drug abuse treatment and education programs relating to controlled substances, alcohol, and marijuana for adults and children;
  (2) If a drug court division has been established in the county under Code Section 15-1-15, for purposes of the drug court division;
  (3) If an operating under the influence court division has been established in the county under Code Section 15-1-19, for the purposes of the operating under the influence court division;
  (4) If a family treatment court division has been established in the county under Code Section 15-11-70, for the purposes of the family treatment court division; and
  (5) If a mental health court division has been established in the county under Code Section 15-1-16 that also serves participants with co-occurring substance use disorders, for the purposes of the mental health court division.
(c) This article shall not preclude the appropriation or expenditure of other funds by the governing authority of any county or by the General Assembly for the purpose of drug abuse treatment or education programs, drug court divisions, operating under the influence court divisions, or family treatment court divisions.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 587,§ 4-2, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 1-11, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 709,§ II-2-4, eff. 7/1/2012.
