# § 15-21-2. Payment into county treasury of fines and bond forfeitures

(a)
  (1) The clerks of the several courts shall pay into the county treasury of the county where the court is held all moneys arising from fines and bond forfeitures collected by them and, upon failure to do so, shall be subject to rule and attachment as in the case of defaulting sheriffs.
  (2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not apply to the remainder of any fines, after costs, imposed for violation of any traffic offense provided in or authorized by Chapter 6 of Title 40 on an urban interstate system if the arrest or citation in such case was made or issued by a member of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety's motorcycle enforcement unit, in which case such remainder shall be remitted to the Department of Public Safety and used for the maintenance and enhancement of the department's motorcycle enforcement program.
  (3) As used in this subsection, the term "urban interstate system" means a portion of the national system of interstate and defense highways which:
    (A) Is located entirely within any part of this state; and
    (B) Includes a single numbered interstate highway which forms a closed loop or perimeter. Where these conditions exist, the urban interstate system shall consist of the interstate highway constituting the closed loop or perimeter and all interstate highways or portions thereof located within such loop or perimeter, not including any portion of any interstate highway outside of the loop or perimeter.
(b) No officer shall be required to pay any money into the treasury until all the legal claims on the funds held and owned by the officer bringing the money into court in the particular case by which the funds for distribution were brought into court have been allowed and paid.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 3-32, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 15, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 470,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
See 2010 Ga. Laws 368, § 2-2.
See 2010 Ga. Laws 368, § 2-1.
