# § 15-21-173. Members; terms; appointment; vacancies; chairperson and other officers; employees

(a) The Georgia Driver's Education Commission shall consist of eight members who shall serve for terms of four years, except that the members in office on April 21, 2006, shall serve the terms to which they were originally appointed. The State Board of Education shall appoint one member of the commission and the Department of Driver Services shall appoint two members of the commission. The director of the Governor's Office of Highway Safety shall appoint one member of the commission. The remaining four members of the commission shall be appointed by the Governor, two of whom shall be public school driver's education providers and the other two shall be private driver's education providers. The Governor shall also establish initial terms of office for all members of the commission within the limitations of this subsection.
(b) In the event of death, resignation, disqualification, or removal for any reason of any member of the commission, the vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment and the successor shall serve for the unexpired term.
(c) Membership on the commission does not constitute a public office, and no member shall be disqualified from holding public office by reason of his or her membership.
(d) The Governor shall designate a chairperson of the commission from among the members, which chairperson shall serve in that position at the pleasure of the Governor. The commission may elect such other officers and committees as it considers appropriate.
(e) The commission, with the approval of the Governor, may employ such professional, technical, or clerical personnel as deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 15, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 553,§ 1, eff. 4/21/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 15, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 401,§ 2, eff. 5/10/2005.
