# § 15-21-74. Assessment and collection of penalties; transfer of payments to Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority; quarterly accounting

The sums provided for under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of Code Section 15-21-73 shall be assessed and collected by the court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from fines and shall be paid over to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority by the last day of the month there following, to be deposited by the authority into the general treasury. The sums provided for under paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 15-21-73 shall be assessed and collected by the court officer charged with the duty of collecting moneys arising from forfeited bonds and shall be paid over to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority by the last day of the month there following for remittance to the Office of the State Treasurer; provided, however, that if the local governing authority has an approved procedure to verify the applicant's income as set forth in Code Section 17-12-80, the court officer shall remit 50 percent of such funds to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority, and the remaining 50 percent shall be remitted to the local governing authority and reported to the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority. The authority shall, on a quarterly basis, make a report and accounting of all funds collected and disbursed pursuant to this article and shall submit such report and accounting to the Office of Planning and Budget, the House Budget and Research Office, and the Senate Budget and Evaluation Office no later than 60 days after the last day of the preceding quarter.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 15, eff. 4/29/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 729,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2008.
