# § 15-21-143. Appointment of members and personnel; agencies

(a) The Brain and Spinal Injury Trust Fund Commission shall consist of 16 members who shall serve for terms of two years, except that with respect to the first members appointed, five members shall be appointed for a term of three years, five for a term of two years, and five for a term of one year. The following agencies may each appoint one member of the commission:
  (1) The Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency;
  (2) The State Board of Education;
  (3) The Department of Public Safety;
  (4) The Department of Community Health;
  (5) The Department of Public Health; and
  (6) The Department of Human Services. The remaining ten members of the commission shall be appointed by the Governor, seven of whom shall be citizens who have sustained brain or spinal cord injury or members of such persons' immediate families, no more than one of whom shall reside in the same geographic area of the state which constitutes a health district established by the Department of Public Health. The Governor is authorized but not required to appoint the remaining three members from recommendations submitted by the Private Rehabilitation Suppliers of Georgia, the Georgia Hospital Association, the Brain Injury Association of Georgia, the Medical Association of Georgia, and the Georgia State Medical Association. The Governor shall also establish initial terms of office for all 16 members of the board within the limitations of this subsection.
(b) In the event of death, resignation, disqualification, or removal for any reason of any member of the commission, the vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment and the successor shall serve for the unexpired term.
(c) Membership on the commission does not constitute public office, and no member shall be disqualified from holding public office by reason of his or her membership.
(d) The Governor shall designate a chairperson of the commission from among the members, which chairperson shall serve in that position at the pleasure of the Governor. The commission may elect such other officers and committees as it considers appropriate.
(e) The commission, with the approval of the Governor, may employ such professional, technical, or clerical personnel as deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 608,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 5-2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-14, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 748, § 3, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, §15, eff. 2/12/2001.
