# § 15-21-73. Penalty to be imposed in certain criminal and quasi-criminal and traffic cases and upon violation of bond

(a)
  (1) In every case in which any state court, probate court, juvenile court, police, recorder's, or mayor's court, municipal court, magistrate court, or superior court in this state shall impose a fine, which shall be construed to include costs, for any criminal or quasi-criminal offense against a criminal or traffic law, including civil traffic violations and violations of local criminal ordinances, of this state or political subdivision thereof, there shall be imposed as an additional penalty a sum equal to:
    (A) The lesser of $50.00 or 10 percent of the original fine; plus
    (B) An additional 10 percent of the original fine.
  (2) At the time of posting bail or bond in any case involving a violation of a criminal or traffic law of this state or political subdivision thereof, an additional sum equal to:
    (A) The lesser of $100.00 or 10 percent of the original amount of bail or bond; plus
    (B) The lesser of an additional $100.00 or 10 percent of the original amount of bail or bond shall be posted. In every case in which any state court, probate court, municipal court, magistrate court, recorder's court, mayor's court, or superior court shall order the forfeiture of bail or bond, the additional amounts provided for in this paragraph shall be paid over as provided in Code Section 15-21-74.
(b) Such sums shall be in addition to that amount required by Code Section 47-17-60 to be paid into the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund or Code Section 47-11-51 concerning the Judges of the Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia and any other amounts provided for by law.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 729,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2008.
