# § 15-21-203. Commission membership; administration

(a) The commission shall consist of eight members. Seven of the members shall serve for terms of two years, except that with respect to the first members appointed, two members shall be appointed for terms of three years, four members for terms of two years, and one member for a term of one year. The director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the Department of Human Services shall be a permanent member of the commission. The chairperson of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council, the commissioner of behavioral health and developmental disabilities, and the director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the Department of Human Services shall each appoint one member of the commission; the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall each appoint two of the remaining four members. The Governor shall establish initial terms of office for all members of the commission within the limitations of this subsection.
(b) In the event of death, resignation, disqualification, or removal for any reason of any member of the commission, the vacancy shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment, and the successor shall serve for the unexpired term.
(c) Membership on the commission shall not constitute public office, and no member shall be disqualified from holding public office by reason of his or her membership.
(d) The Governor shall designate a chairperson of the commission from among the members, which chairperson shall serve in that position at the pleasure of the Governor. The commission may elect such other officers and committees as it considers appropriate.
(e) The commission, with the approval of the Governor, may employ such professional, technical, or clerical personnel as deemed necessary to carry out the purposes of this article.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 95,§ 3-1, eff. 1/1/2017.
