# § 15-21-202. Commission established; fund creation; disbursement of proceeds

(a) There is established the Safe Harbor for Sexually Exploited Children Fund Commission which is assigned to the Division of Family and Children Services of the Department of Human Resources for administrative purposes only, as prescribed in Code Section 50-4-3.
(b) There is created the Safe Harbor for Sexually Exploited Children Fund as a separate fund in the state treasury. The state treasurer shall credit to the fund all amounts transferred to the fund and shall invest the fund moneys in the same manner as authorized for investing other moneys in the state treasury.
(c) The commission may authorize the disbursement of available money from the fund, after appropriation thereof, for purposes of providing care, rehabilitative services, residential housing, health services, and social services, including establishing safe houses, to sexually exploited children and to a person, entity, or program eligible pursuant to criteria to be set by the commission. The commission shall also consider disbursement of available money from the fund to a person, entity, or program devoted to awareness and prevention of becoming a sexually exploited child. The commission may also authorize the disbursement of fund money for the actual and necessary operating expenses that the commission incurs in performing its duties; provided, however, that such disbursements shall be kept at a minimum in furtherance of the primary purpose of the fund, which is to disburse money to provide care and rehabilitative and social services for sexually exploited children.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 95,§ 3-1, eff. 1/1/2017.
