# § 45-16-62. Council established; membership; terms of office; curriculum advisory committee; filling of vacancies

(a) There is established a council which shall be known and designated as the "Georgia Coroner's Training Council" which shall be composed of the superintendent of the Georgia Police Academy or his designee, which member shall not be a voting member; five coroners appointed by the Board of Public Safety, three of whom will be selected from a list of five persons recommended by the Georgia Coroner's Association; and one physician trained in forensic pathology and appointed by the Board of Public Safety, which physician member shall not be a voting member of the council but shall advise the council regarding the training course curriculum for coroners. The term of office of the physician member appointed in 1990 shall begin September 1, 1990, and that and all subsequent terms for that office shall be for four years and until the appointment and qualification of a successor. The five coroners appointed shall serve for terms of four years. The term of office of the member initially appointed in 1987 shall begin September 1, 1987. Upon the expiration of a member's term of office, such member shall continue to serve on the council until his successor is appointed and qualified. Any person, other than the physician member, appointed to the council who ceases to serve as a coroner shall be ineligible to continue service on the council. The Georgia Police Academy shall establish a curriculum advisory committee to provide information beneficial to the development of courses at the Georgia Police Academy. Members of the committee will be selected by the superintendent of the Georgia Police Academy.
(b) Membership on the council does not constitute public office, and no member shall be disqualified from holding office by reason of his membership.
(c) Vacancies on the council shall be filled as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section for the remainder of the unexpired term.
