# § 45-16-11. Compensation of county coroners; increases; calculation; supplements; expenses

(a)
  (1) Any other law to the contrary notwithstanding, the minimum annual salary of each coroner in any of the counties in this state in the following population brackets shall be fixed according to the population of the county in which he or she serves, as determined by the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census. Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, each such coroner shall receive an annual salary, payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of the coroner's county, of not less than the amount fixed in the following schedule: PopulationMinimum Salary0 - 11,889 .................................$ 1,200.0011,890 - 19,999 .................................2,400.0020,000 - 34,999 .................................3,600.00
  (2) Whenever the state employees subject to compensation plans authorized and approved in accordance with Code Section 45-20-4 receive a cost-of-living increase or general performance based increase of a certain percentage or a certain amount, the amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and in Code Section 45-16-11.1, or the amounts derived by increasing each of said amounts through the application of longevity increases pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, where applicable, shall be increased by the same percentage or same amount applicable to such state employees. If the cost-of-living increase or general performance based increase received by state employees is in different percentages or different amounts as to certain categories of employees, the amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and in Code Section 45-16-11.1, or the amounts derived through the application of longevity increases, shall be increased by a percentage or an amount not to exceed the average percentage or average amount of the general increase in salary granted to the state employees. The Office of Planning and Budget shall calculate the average percentage increase or average amount increase when necessary. The periodic changes in the amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and in Code Section 45-16-11.1, or the amounts derived through the application of longevity increases, as authorized by this paragraph shall become effective on the first day of January following the date that the cost-of-living increases received by state employees become effective; provided, however, that if the cost-of-living increases or general performance based increases received by state employees become effective on January 1, such periodic changes in the amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and in Code Section 45-16-11.1, or the amounts derived through the application of longevity increases, as authorized by this paragraph shall become effective on the same date that the cost-of-living increases or general performance based increases received by state employees become effective.
  (3) The county governing authority may supplement the minimum annual salary of the coroner in such amount as it may fix from time to time; but no coroner's compensation supplement shall be decreased during any term of office. Any prior expenditure of county funds to supplement the coroner's salary in the manner authorized by this paragraph is ratified and confirmed. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall prohibit the General Assembly by local law from supplementing the annual salary of the coroner.
(b) The amounts provided in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of this Code section and Code Section 45-16-11.1, as increased by paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section, shall be increased by multiplying said amounts by the percentage which equals 5 percent times the number of completed four-year terms of office served by any coroner after December 31, 2000, effective the first day of January following the completion of each such period of service.
(c) The minimum salaries provided for under this Code section shall be in addition to any fees, including the death investigation fee provided for under subsection (b) of Code Section 45-16-27, paid by the county governing authority to the coroner on a per-call basis and in addition to any expenses.
(d) The minimum salaries provided for in this Code section shall be considered as salary only. Expenses for deputies, equipment, supplies, copying equipment, and other necessary and reasonable expenses for the operation of a coroner's office shall come from funds other than the funds specified as salary in this Code section.
(e) This Code section shall not be construed to reduce the salary of any coroner in office on July 1, 2001; provided, however, that successors to such coroners in office on July 1, 2001, shall be governed by the provisions of this Code section. All local legislation in effect on July 1, 2001, or enacted thereafter affecting compensation for coroners of the various counties shall be of full force and effect except where the same provides for a salary lower than provided in this Code section, in which event this Code section shall prevail.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 228,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-75, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 291, § 18, eff. 1/1/2002.
