# § 45-16-38. Issuance of precept to sheriff to summon inquest jury; form

Whenever a coroner receives notice of the death of any person within the limits of the county of which he is coroner, which death occurred under circumstances which make it his duty, under the law, to hold an inquest, he shall make out a precept directed to the sheriff or any constable of the county having jurisdiction requiring him to summon a jury of inquest selected from the grand jury or traverse jury lists of the last excused term of the superior court of such county to appear before the coroner at the time and place mentioned in the precept, which precept may be in the following form:

State of Georgia

__________________ County

To the sheriff or any lawful constable of said county,

Greeting:

You are required immediately to summon six persons of said county, chosen from the lists of grand jurors and traverse jurors of the last excused term of the superior court of said county, to be and appear before me, the undersigned, coroner of the county aforesaid, at __________________, in said county, on the __________________ day of __________________ at __________________ :__________________ __________________. M. of that same day, then and there to inquire of, do, and execute all such things as in behalf of the state shall be given them in charge concerning the death of __________________ (or a person unknown, as the case may be), and be you then and there with this precept to certify what you have done in the premises and further to do whatsoever else may in behalf of the state be enjoined upon you.

Given under my hand and seal, this the __________________ day of __________________, in the year of our Lord __________________.

__________________ Coroner (L.S.)

Such precept shall be immediately executed by the sheriff or constable in whose hands it may be placed; and, if the services of the sheriff or a constable cannot be conveniently obtained, the coroner may summon the jury himself.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 45, eff. 4/18/2002.
