# § 2-1-4. Anti-siphon devices for irrigation systems; rules and regulations as to such devices; hearings on violations; administrative and judicial review; filing of final order; payment of penalty

(a) Any irrigation system which is designed or used for the application of fertilizer, pesticide, or chemicals must be equipped with an anti-siphon device adequate to protect against contamination of the water supply. Such anti-siphon device shall consist of a check valve and low pressure drain in the irrigation supply line located between the irrigation pump and the point of injection of fertilizer, pesticide, or chemicals. Any system which complied with the law in effect on January 1, 1982, shall be deemed to be in compliance with the provisions of this subsection.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to use any irrigation system designed or used for the application of fertilizer, pesticide, or chemicals, which system is not equipped as required by this Code section.
(c) The Commissioner shall make and publish in print or electronically such rules and regulations as he deems necessary to carry out this Code section, which rules and regulations are not inconsistent with this Code section. Such rules and regulations may specify requirements to be met by anti-siphon devices and the placement of such devices to provide adequate protection.
(d) The Commissioner, in order to enforce this Code section or any orders, rules, and regulations promulgated pursuant thereto, may issue an administrative order imposing a penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 for each violation whenever the Commissioner, after a hearing, determines that any person has violated any provision of this Code section, or any regulation or order promulgated hereunder. The hearing and any administrative review thereof shall be conducted in accordance with the procedure for contested cases under Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Any person who has exhausted all administrative remedies available and who is aggrieved or adversely affected by a final order or action of the Commissioner shall have the right of judicial review thereof in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50. All penalties recovered under this Code section shall be paid into the state treasury. The Commissioner may file in the superior court wherein the person under order resides, or, if the person is a corporation, in the county wherein the corporation maintains its principal place of business, or in the county wherein the violation occurred, a certified copy of a final order of the Commissioner unappealed from, or of a final order of the Commissioner affirmed upon appeal, whereupon such court shall render judgment in accordance therewith and notify the parties. Such judgment shall have the same effect, and proceedings in relation thereto shall thereafter be the same, as though such judgment has been rendered in a suit duly heard and determined by such court. The penalty prescribed in this Code section shall be concurrent, alternative, and cumulative with any and all other civil, criminal, or alternative rights, remedies, forfeitures, or penalties provided, allowed, or available to the Commissioner with respect to any violation of this Code section or any orders, rules, or regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
