# § 50-24-2. Definitions

(1) "Contractor" means:
  (A) Any person engaged in the business of constructing, altering, repairing, dismantling, or demolishing buildings; roads; bridges; viaducts; sewers; water and gas mains; streets; disposal plants; airports; dams; water filters, tanks, towers, and wells; pipelines; and every other type of structure, project, development, or improvement coming within the definition of real or personal property, including, but not limited to, constructing, altering, or repairing property to be held either for sale or rental when the contract involves an expenditure by a state agency of at least $25,000.00; or
  (B) Any person supplying goods, materials, services, or supplies pursuant to a contract or lease on behalf of a state agency as described in Code Section 50-5-64 when the contract involves an expenditure by the state agency of at least $25,000.00.
(2) "Controlled substance" means a controlled substance as defined in Article 2 of Chapter 13 of Title 16.
(3) "Conviction" means a plea of guilty or a finding of guilt, including a plea of nolo contendere and regardless of treatment as a first offender under Article 3 of Chapter 8 of Title 42, or imposition of a sentence, or both, by any judicial body charged with a responsibility to determine violations of the federal or state criminal drug statutes.
(4) "Criminal drug statute" means any criminal statute involving the manufacture, sale, distribution, dispensation, use, or possession of any controlled substance or marijuana.
(5) "Drug-free workplace" means a site for the performance of work done in connection with a specific contract referred to in paragraph (1) of this Code section with a person, the employees of which person are prohibited from engaging in the unlawful manufacture, sale, distribution, dispensation, possession, or use of any controlled substance or marijuana in accordance with the requirements of this chapter.
(6) "Employee" means the employee of a contractor directly engaged in the performance of work pursuant to the provisions of the contract referred to in paragraph (1) of this Code section.
(7) "Individual" means a contractor that has no more than one employee, including the contractor.
(8) "Marijuana" means the substance as defined in paragraph (16) of Code Section 16-13-21.
(9) "Person" means a corporation, a partnership, a business trust, an association, a firm, or any other legal entity except an individual.
(10) "Principal representative" means the governing board or the executive head of a state agency who is authorized to enter into a contract with a contractor on behalf of the state agency.
(11) "State agency" means any department, division, board, bureau, commission, or other agency of the state government or any state authority.
(12) "Subcontractor" means a person hired by a contractor on an independent basis rather than as an employee and who performs work for the contractor under a contract as provided under subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of this Code section.
