# § 47-21-20. Definitions

(1) "Actuarial assumptions" means assumptions regarding the occurrence of future events affecting costs of the fund such as mortality, withdrawal, disability, and retirement; changes in compensation and offered post-employment benefits; rates of investment earnings and asset appreciation or depreciation; procedures used to determine the actuarial value of assets; and other relevant items.
(2) "Actuarially sound" means that calculated contributions to the fund are sufficient to pay the full actuarial cost of the fund. The full actuarial cost includes both the normal cost of providing for fund obligations as they accrue in the future and the cost of amortizing the unfunded actuarial accrued liability over a period of no more than 30 years.
(3) "Administrative expenses" means all expenses incurred in the operation of the fund, including all investment expenses.
(4) "Annual required contribution" means the amount determined in accordance with requirements of Governmental Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 43, or any subsequent Governmental Accounting Standards Board statements that may be applicable to the fund.
(5) "Board" means the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia.
(6) "Covered health care expenses" means all actual health care expenses incurred by the health plan with respect to fund beneficiaries. Actual health care expenses include claims incurred with respect to fund beneficiaries and premiums incurred with respect to intermediary entities and health care providers by the health plan.
(7) "Employer" means the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia and any department or institution of thereof that employs persons who are eligible to participate in the health plan.
(8) "Fund" means the Board of Regents Retiree Health Benefit Fund established under this article.
(9) "Health plan" means the board's health insurance plans established pursuant to authority granted to the board pursuant to Code Sections 20-3-31 and 20-3-51.
(10) "Obligations" means the administrative expenses of the fund and the cost of covered health care expenses incurred on behalf of fund beneficiaries less any amounts received by or on behalf of fund beneficiaries.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 23,§ 3, eff. 5/11/2007.
