# § 47-21-4. Employee and other contributions

(a) On and after July 1, 2013, each participating employee shall contribute to the optional retirement plan a percentage of his or her earnable compensation as determined by the board of regents.
(b) The University System of Georgia shall contribute to the optional retirement plan on behalf of each participating employee the following:
  (1) Prior to January 1, 1997, an amount equal to 4 percent of the participating employee's earnable compensation;
  (2) On and after January 1, 1997, and before January 1, 2009, an amount equal to the normal cost contribution determined by the board of trustees in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 47-3-48; and
  (3) On and after January 1, 2009, an amount determined by the board of regents after consulting with the state auditor, the director of the Office of Planning and Budget, and the state accounting officer. The board of regents shall review the contribution amount every three years.
(c) The participating employee's contribution required by the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section may be made by a reduction in earnable compensation or by an employer pickup pursuant to the authority of any applicable provisions of the United States Internal Revenue Code, as amended. The method of contribution provided for in this subsection shall be a privilege for the convenience of employees and no right of action shall accrue to the employee or any company designated to provide such optional retirement plan for errors, omissions, or decisions of any agent of the University System of Georgia regarding deductions under this subsection.
(d) All contributions authorized or required by this Code section shall be paid to the designated companies for the benefit of each participating employee by the financial officer of the employing institution.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 258,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 500,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
See 2008 Ga. Laws 500, § 3.
