# § 2-11-74. Membership of Seed Arbitration Council; terms; chairperson and secretary; sessions; expenses

(a) The Seed Arbitration Council shall be composed of five members. One member and one alternate shall be appointed upon the recommendation of each of the following individuals or executive committee:
  (1) The associate dean for the Cooperative Extension Service of the University of Georgia;
  (2) The associate dean for the experiment stations of the College of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences of the University of Georgia;
  (3) The president of the Georgia Farm Bureau Federation;
  (4) The executive committee of the Georgia Seedsmen's Association; and
  (5) The Commissioner of Agriculture.
(b) Each member and each alternate shall continue to serve until a replacement has been recommended by his or her appointing official. Alternate members shall serve only in the absence of the member for whom such person is an alternate.
(c) The council shall annually elect a chairperson and a secretary from its membership. The chairperson shall conduct the meetings and deliberations of the council and direct all activities. The secretary shall keep accurate records of all the meetings and deliberations and perform such other duties as the chairperson may direct.
(d) The council may be called into session upon the direction of the chairperson or by the Commissioner to consider matters referred to it by the Commissioner.
(e) Members of the council shall receive no compensation for the performance of their duties but shall be reimbursed for travel expenses by each representing organization.
