# § 2-11-26. Powers and duties of Commissioner - Licensing authority; penalties

(a) For the purpose of carrying out this article, the Commissioner, who may act through his or her authorized agents, is authorized to issue a license to each retail and wholesale seed dealer, such license to be applied for by each seed dealer upon forms furnished for such purpose. A separate license shall be required for each point of sale, from which seed are sold, offered for sale, or exposed for sale. Out-of-state wholesale and retail seed dealers who sell or ship seed into this state shall obtain a license in the same manner. Such licenses shall be renewable in August of every third year following issuance. A fee in an amount fixed by rule or regulation of the Commissioner at not less than $70.00 nor more than $100.00 per annum shall be charged for such license. Any fees collected pursuant to this Code section shall be retained pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-12-92.1.
(b) The Commissioner may enter an order imposing one or more of the following penalties against any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter or the rules promulgated under this article or who impedes, obstructs, hinders, or otherwise prevents or attempts to prevent the Commissioner or the Commissioner's agent in the performance of his or her duty in connection with the provisions of this article:
  (1) Issuance of a warning letter;
  (2) Imposition of an administrative fine not more than $1,000.00 per occurrence, suspension of a license, or both; or
  (3) Revocation of the seed dealer's license. Actions stated in paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection shall be preceded by a departmental hearing to consider evidence that the licensee has violated this article or any rule or regulation promulgated under this article.
(c) No person who has not complied with this Code section shall sell or offer for sale any seed within this state.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-7, eff. 5/12/2010.
