# § 2-11-21. Definitions

(1) "Advertisement" means all representations, other than those on the label, disseminated in any manner or by any means, relating to any seed within the scope of this article.
(2) "Agricultural seed" means the seeds of grass, forage, cereal, oil, and fiber crops and any other kinds of seeds commonly recognized within this state as agricultural seed, lawn seed, and mixtures of such seeds and may include noxious weed seed when the Commissioner of Agriculture determines that such seed is being used as agricultural seed.
(3) "Bulk" means a volume of seed in a container larger than a typical individual packaging unit for that kind, e.g., bulk bags and boxes, bins, trucks, rail cars, or barges.
(4) "Coated or encrusted seed" means seed that has been covered by a layer or layers of materials that obscure the original shape and size of the seed resulting in a substantial weight increase. The addition of biologicals, pesticides, identifying colorants, dyes, polymers, and other ingredients can be included in this process.
(5) "Dormant seed" means viable seed, excluding hard seed, that fail to germinate when provided the specified germination conditions for the kind of seed in question.
(6) "Flower seed" means the seeds of herbaceous plants grown for their blooms, ornamental foliage, or other ornamental parts and commonly known and sold under the name of flower seeds in this state.
(7) "Germination" means the emergence and development from the seed embryo of those essential structures which, for the kind of seed in question, are indicative of the ability to produce a normal plant under favorable conditions.
(8) "Hard seed" means seed that remain hard at the end of the prescribed test period because they have not absorbed water due to an impermeable seed coat.
(9) "Hybrid" means the first generation of a cross produced by controlling the pollination and by combining:
  (A) two or more inbred lines;
  (B) one inbred or a single cross with another single cross or with an open-pollinated variety; or
  (C) two varieties or species, except open-pollinated varieties of corn (Zea mays) and other open-pollinated crop kinds. The second generation or subsequent generations from such crosses shall not be regarded as hybrids. Hybrid designations shall be treated as variety names and hybrids shall be labeled as hybrids.
(10) "Inert matter" means all matter that is not seed, which includes but is not limited to broken seeds, sterile florets, chaff, fungus bodies, and stones as determined by methods defined by rule. The percent inert matter shall not exceed 3 percent for hybrid field corn, nor 4 percent inert matter for other agricultural crop seed, except as established by rule for special crops. Inert matter will not include coating or pelleting material, fertilizer, or mulch, for which there are no limitations.
(11) "Inoculated seed" means seed that has received a coating of a preparation containing a microbial product, e.g., Rhizobium sp.
(12) "Kind" means one or more related species or subspecies which singly or collectively are known by one common name, as, for example, corn, oats, alfalfa, and cotton.
(13) "Labeling" means a tag or other written, printed, or graphic representations on any container or accompanying any lot of bulk seeds, including such representations as those on invoices, purporting to set forth the information required on the seed label by this article.
(14) "Lawn and turf" pertains to seeds of the grass family (Poaceae) that are used within the industry for lawn and turf applications.
(15) "Lot" means a definite quantity of seed identified by a lot number or other mark, every portion or bag of which is uniform within recognized tolerances for the factors which are required to appear in the labeling.
(16) "Mixture," "mix," or "mixed" means seed consisting of more than one kind or variety or both, each in excess of 5 percent by weight of the whole.
(17) "Noxious weed seeds" include "prohibited noxious weed seeds" and "restricted noxious weed seeds," as defined in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph, provided that the Commissioner of Agriculture may, through the promulgation of regulations, establish a list of seeds included under subparagraphs (A) and (B), whenever the Commissioner finds that such seeds conform to the respective definitions.
  (A) "Prohibited noxious weed seeds" are those weed seeds that are prohibited from being present in agricultural, vegetable, flower, tree, or shrub seed. They are the seed of weeds that are highly destructive and difficult to control by good cultural practices and the use of herbicides.
  (B) "Restricted noxious weed seeds" are those weed seeds that are very objectionable in fields, lawns, and gardens of this state but can be controlled by good cultural practice.
(18) "Other crop seed" means seed of plants grown as crops (other than the kind or variety included in the pure seed) as determined by methods defined by rule.
(19) "Pelleted seed" means coated or encrusted seed that also improves the plantibility or singulation of the seed.
(20) "Person" means an individual, partnership, corporation, company, association, receiver, trustee, or agent.
(21) "Private hearing" means a discussion of facts between the person charged with a violation and representatives of the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(22) "Pure seed" means all seeds of each kind and variety under consideration that are present in excess of 5 percent of the whole. Kinds or varieties shown on a label as components of a mixture in amounts 5 percent or less of the whole may be considered pure seed when shown on a label as components of a mixture.
(23) "Record" means all information relating to the lot, identification, source, origin, variety, amount, processing, blending, testing, labeling, and distribution of the seed and includes a file sample thereof.
(24) "Seed" means the true seeds of all field crops, vegetables, flowers, trees, and shrubs, and any naturally occurring vegetative propagule, excluding plant parts of hybrids.
(25) "Seizure" means a legal process carried out by court order against a definite amount of seed.
(26) "Stop sale" means an administrative order provided by law restraining the sale, use, disposition, and movement of a definite amount of seed.
(27) "Treated" means seed that has received a minimal covering according to the manufacturer's recommended rate of a substance or process which is designed to reduce or control certain disease organisms, insects, or other pests attacking such seed or seedlings growing therefrom and the covering substance may contain identifying colorants and dyes.
(28) "Tree and shrub seeds" means seeds of woody plants commonly known and sold as tree or shrub seeds in this state.
(29) "Variety" means a subdivision of a kind that is distinct, uniform, and stable; "distinct" in the sense that the variety can be differentiated by one or more identifiable morphological, physiological, or other characteristics from all other varieties of public knowledge; "uniform" in the sense that the variations in essential and distinctive characteristics are describable; and "stable" in the sense that the variety will remain unchanged in its essential and distinctive characteristics and its uniformity when reproduced or reconstituted.
(30) "Vegetable seeds" means the seeds of those crops which are grown in gardens and on farms and are generally known and sold under the name of vegetable or herb seeds in this state.
(31) "Weed seeds" means the seeds of all plants generally recognized as weeds within this state, and determined by methods defined by rule, and includes the prohibited and restricted noxious weed seeds.
