# § 48-6-73. Reports and distributions by collecting officer; failure to distribute as breach of duty and bond; commissions; long-term notes not entered on property tax digest

Each collecting officer shall make a report to the commissioner by the tenth day of each month on forms prescribed by the commissioner of all sums collected and remitted under this article for the preceding month. The collecting officer shall retain 6 percent of the tax collected as compensation for said officer's services in collecting the tax. All such taxes shall be deemed to have been collected by the collecting officer in said officer's official capacity. Failure to collect and distribute the tax as provided by law shall constitute a breach of the official duty and of the official bond of the collecting officer. In each county in which the collecting officer is on a salary, the 6 percent commission allowed by this Code section shall be paid into the county treasury and shall become county property. The long-term notes secured by real property upon which this tax is based shall not be placed upon the property tax digest prepared and maintained by the tax receiver. It is the intention of the General Assembly that the 6 percent commission permitted under this article for the collection and distribution of this tax by the collecting officer shall be the only compensation permitted to any collecting officer with respect to this tax.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 675,§ 1, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 961, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
