# § 15-7-26. [Effective Until 7/1/2025] The Council of State Court Judges of Georgia

(a) There is created a state court judges' council to be known as "The Council of State Court Judges of Georgia." The council shall be composed of the judges, senior judges, and judges emeriti of the state courts of this state. The council is authorized to organize itself and to develop a constitution and bylaws.
(b) It shall be the purpose of The Council of State Court Judges of Georgia to effectuate the constitutional and statutory responsibilities conferred upon it by law and to further the improvement of the state courts, the quality and expertise of the judges thereof, and the administration of justice.
(c) Expenses of the administration of the council shall be paid from state funds appropriated for that purpose, from federal funds available to the council for that purpose, or from other appropriate sources.
(d) The Judicial Council of Georgia and its Administrative Office of the Courts shall provide technical services to the council and shall assist the council's composition in complying with all its legal requirements. Such requirements shall include, but shall not be limited to, the transmission of criminal history data not inconsistent with the uniform standards promulgated pursuant to paragraph (5) of subsection (h) of Code Section 15-5-24.1.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 88,§ 9, eff. 5/1/2023.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 878, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
