# § 15-7-21. Qualifications; restrictions on practice of law; removal, discipline, and involuntary retirement

(a)
  (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, each judge of the state court shall:
    (A) Be a resident of the geographic area in which he or she is selected to serve;
    (B) Have been a resident of the state for three years next preceding the beginning of his or her term of office;
    (C) As of the date on which his or her term of office begins, be at least 25 years of age;
    (D) Have been admitted to practice law for seven years; and
    (E) Be a member in good standing with the State Bar of Georgia and have been duly reinstated to the practice of law in the event of his or her disbarment therefrom.
  (2) If, at the expiration of the qualifying period for the general nonpartisan primary or any special election, no candidate meeting the requirements of paragraph (1) of this subsection has qualified, then the county election superintendent shall reopen qualifying for a period of 15 days, and any individual may qualify who:
    (A) will have been for three years next preceding the beginning of the term of office a resident of the superior court judicial circuit containing the geographic area in which the judge is to serve; and
    (B) meets all requirements, other than the residency requirement specified in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of this subsection, for eligibility for nomination and election to the office of state court judge. If such individual is elected to the office of state court judge, he or she may thereafter qualify for reelection to such office as long as he or she continues to reside within the judicial circuit containing the geographic area in which the judge is to serve and otherwise meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(b) A full-time judge of the state court shall not engage in the private practice of law. A part-time judge of the state court may engage in the private practice of law in other courts but may not practice in his or her own court or appear in any matter as to which that judge has exercised any jurisdiction.
(c) Judges of the state courts shall be subject to discipline, removal, and involuntary retirement pursuant to Article VI, Section VII, Paragraphs VI and VII of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(d) The office of any judge of the state court shall be vacated upon the disbarment or suspension from the practice of law of such judge by the Supreme Court whether voluntary or involuntary and upon order of the Supreme Court providing for such removal from office.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 48,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 947, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 166, §1, eff. 7/1/2001.
