# § 29-4-16. Conduct of emergency guardianship hearing; limitations on emergency guardianship

(a) The court shall conduct the emergency guardianship hearing, at the time and date set forth in its order, to determine whether there is clear and convincing evidence of the need for an emergency guardianship in light of the evidence taken at the hearing. In addition to the evidence at the hearing, the court may consider the evaluation report and any response filed by the proposed ward. The burden of proof shall be upon the petitioner. Upon the consent of the petitioner and the proposed ward, the court may grant a continuance of the case for a period not to exceed 30 days.
(b) If the court at the emergency hearing finds that an emergency guardianship is necessary, the court shall order the emergency guardianship; provided, however, that:
  (1) Any emergency guardian shall have only those powers and duties specifically enumerated in the letters of emergency guardianship and the powers and duties shall not exceed those absolutely necessary to respond to the immediate threatened risk to the ward;
  (2) The court may order the emergency guardian to make any report the court requires; and
  (3) The emergency guardianship shall terminate on the earliest of:
    (A) The court's removal of the emergency guardian, with or without cause;
    (B) The effective date of the appointment of a guardian;
    (C) Unless otherwise specified in the order of dismissal, the dismissal of a petition for appointment of a guardian;
    (D) The date specified for the termination in the order appointing the emergency guardian;
    (E) Sixty days from the date of appointment of the emergency guardian, provided that the court had jurisdiction to issue such order under paragraph (1) of Code Section 29-11-12; or
    (F) Ninety days from the date of appointment of the emergency guardian, provided that the court had jurisdiction to issue such order under paragraph (2) or (3) of Code Section 29-11-12.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 233,§ 8, eff. 1/1/2020.
Former § 29-4-16 repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 29, eff. 4/7/2005.
Repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
