# § 29-4-13. Requirements of order granting guardianship; service

(a) The court shall issue an order that sets forth the findings of fact and conclusions of law that support the grant or denial of the petition. An order granting guardianship shall specify:
  (1) The name of the guardian and the basis for the selection;
  (2) Any powers retained by the ward pursuant to Code Section 29-4-21;
  (3) The limitations on the guardianship;
  (4) A specific listing of any of the additional powers, as described in subsection (b) of Code Section 29-4-23, that are granted to the guardian;
  (5) If only a guardian is appointed or if the guardian and the conservator appointed are not the same person, the reasonable sums of property to be provided the guardian to provide adequately for the ward's support, care, education, health, and welfare, subject to modification by subsequent order of the court;
  (6) The type and frequency of any physical, mental, and social evaluations of the ward's condition which the court may require to supplement the reports submitted pursuant to paragraph (9) of subsection (a) of Code Section 29-4-22; and
  (7) Such other and further provisions of the guardianship as the court shall determine to be in the best interest of the ward, stating the reasons therefor.
(b) Service of the court's order shall be made by first-class mail upon the ward, the ward's legal counsel, the guardian ad litem, if any, the guardian, the petitioner, and other persons designated for service of the petition for guardianship.
(c) After service of an order granting guardianship, the ward's legal counsel shall make reasonable efforts to explain to the ward the order and the ward's rights under the order.

## History

Former § 29-4-13 repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
