# § 29-4-61. Appointment of successor guardian and legal counsel; notice to interested parties; hearing

(a) The court shall appoint a successor guardian upon the resignation, death, or revocation of the letters of the guardian if the appointment of a successor guardian is in the best interest of the ward. The court shall select the successor guardian in the manner provided in Code Section 29-4-3.
(b) The court shall appoint legal counsel for the ward. In the event of the resignation or death of the guardian, notice of the proceeding for appointment of a successor guardian shall be given as provided in Code Sections 29-4-50 and 29-4-51. In all other cases, notice of the proceeding for appointment of a successor guardian shall be served personally on the ward and the ward's legal counsel. Notice shall be made by first-class mail to the conservator of the ward, if any, and to the following persons whose whereabouts are known and who must be persons other than the proposed successor guardian:
  (1) The spouse of the ward; and
  (2) All adult children of the ward; or
  (3) If there is no adult child, then at least two adults in the following order of priority:
    (A) Lineal descendants of the ward;
    (B) Parents and siblings of the ward; and
    (C) Friends of the ward.
(c) After a hearing which the court deems appropriate, the court shall enter an order appointing the successor guardian.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 233,§ 11, eff. 1/1/2020.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
