# § 29-4-50. Resignation of guardian; required showing; alternative guardian; individuals entitled to notice; hearing

(a) A guardian or the duly authorized guardian, conservator, or attorney in fact of a guardian, acting on behalf of the guardian, may resign upon petition to the court, showing to the satisfaction of the court that:
  (1) The guardian is unable to continue serving due to age, illness, infirmity, or other good cause;
  (2) Greater burdens have devolved upon the office of guardian than those that were originally contemplated or should have been contemplated when the guardian was qualified and the additional burdens work a hardship upon the guardian;
  (3) Disagreement exists between the ward and the guardian or between the guardian and the conservator in respect of the guardian's care of the ward, which disagreement and conflict appear to be detrimental to the ward;
  (4) The resignation of the guardian will result in or permit substantial financial benefit to the ward; or
  (5) The resignation would not be disadvantageous to the ward.
(b) The petition for resignation shall include the name of a suitable person who is willing to accept the guardianship.
(c) The court shall appoint legal counsel for the ward and personal service of the petition for resignation shall be made upon the ward and the ward's legal counsel. Service shall be made by first-class mail to the conservator of the ward, if any, and to the following persons whose whereabouts are known and who must be persons other than the resigning guardian or the proposed successor guardian:
  (1) The spouse of the ward; and
  (2) All adult children of the ward; or
  (3) If there is no adult child, then at least two adults in the following order of priority:
    (A) Lineal descendants of the ward;
    (B) Parents and siblings of the ward; and
    (C) Friends of the ward.
(d) If, after such hearing as the court deems appropriate, the court is satisfied that the petition for the resignation of the guardian and the appointment of the successor guardian should be granted, the court shall enter an order appointing the successor guardian in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 29-4-61 and accepting the resignation, subject to the resigning guardian turning over to the successor guardian or conservator all property of the ward held by the guardian.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Former § 29-4-50 repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 29, eff. 4/7/2005.
Repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 773,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2002.
