# § 29-4-60. Appointment of temporary substitute guardian; period of service; service on ward; removal

(a) Upon its own motion or on the petition of any interested party, including the ward, the court may appoint a temporary substitute guardian for a ward if it appears to the court that the best interest of the ward requires immediate action.
(b) The temporary substitute guardian shall be appointed for a specified period not to exceed 120 days.
(c) The court shall appoint as temporary substitute guardian an appropriate individual who shall serve the best interest of the ward.
(d) Except as otherwise ordered by the court, a temporary substitute guardian has the powers set forth in the order of appointment. The authority of the previously appointed guardian is suspended for as long as the temporary substitute guardian has authority.
(e) Notice of the appointment of a temporary substitute guardian shall be served personally on the ward. Notice of the appointment shall be served personally on the previously appointed guardian at the last address provided by that guardian to the court. Notice of the appointment shall be mailed by first-class mail to the ward's conservator, if any.
(f) The court may remove the temporary substitute guardian at any time. A temporary substitute guardian shall make any report the court requires. In all other respects, the provisions of this chapter apply to the temporary substitute guardian.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
