# § 45-18-7.6. Employees of Georgia-Federal State Inspection Service, spouses, and dependent children

The board is authorized to contract with the Georgia-Federal State Inspection Service for the inclusion in any health insurance plan or plans established under this part of the state employees of, retiring employees of, and employees who retired under the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia on or before July 1, 2000, from the Georgia-Federal State Inspection Service and their spouses and dependent children, as defined by the regulations of the board. It shall be the duty of the Georgia-Federal State Inspection Service to deduct from the salary or other remuneration or otherwise collect such payment from its qualified employees or dependents as may be required under the board's regulations. In addition, it shall be the duty of the Georgia-Federal State Inspection Service to make the employer contributions required for the operation of such plan or plans. Should the Georgia-Federal State Inspection Service fail to remit such deductions or such employer contributions to the board, the commissioner may, upon written notice to the Georgia-Federal State Inspection Service, terminate the coverage for such employees as of the day following the last day for which such deductions or such employer contributions were remitted to the board. Coverage may be reinstated upon the tender of any such deductions or employer contributions not previously remitted.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 45, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 506,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 314, § 1, eff. 4/27/2001.
