# § 45-18-7.7. Employees and dependents of critical access hospitals in health plans

(a) The board is authorized to contract with any public or nonprofit critical access hospital that meets such requirements as the department may establish for the inclusion of the employees and dependents of such critical access hospitals in any health plan established under this part. It shall be the duty of such critical access hospital to deduct from the salary or other remuneration or otherwise collect such payment from its qualified employees as may be required under the board's regulations. In addition, it shall be the duty of such critical access hospital to make the employer contributions required for the operation of such plan. Should any critical access hospital fail to remit such deductions or such employer contributions to the board, the commissioner may, upon written notice to such critical access hospital, terminate the coverage for such employees as of the day following the last day for which such deductions or such employer contributions were remitted to the board. Coverage may be reinstated upon the tender of any such deductions or employer contributions not previously remitted.
(b) The board is authorized to contract with any federally qualified health center, as defined in Section 1395x(aa)(4) of Title 42 of the United States Code Annotated, that meets such requirements as the department may establish for the inclusion of the employees and dependents of such federally qualified health centers in any health plan established under this part. It shall be the duty of the federally qualified health center to deduct from the salary or other remuneration or otherwise collect such payment from its qualified employees as may be required under the board's regulations. In addition, it shall be the duty of such federally qualified health center to make the employer contributions required by the board for the operation of such plan. The department shall make a determination, no later than January 1, 2005, as to whether a federally qualified health center is an agency or instrumentality of the State of Georgia. In the event that the department determines that such centers are agencies or instrumentalities of the State of Georgia, then all employees and dependents of such centers shall be eligible for inclusion in the state employees' health insurance plan. Should any such federally qualified health center fail to remit such deductions or such employer contributions to the board, the commissioner may, upon written notice to such federally qualified health center, terminate the coverage for such employees as of the day following the last day for which such deductions or such employer contributions were remitted to the board. Coverage may be reinstated upon the tender of any such deductions or employer contributions not previously remitted.
(c) The authority granted to the board pursuant to Code Sections 45-18-5.1, 45-18-5.2, 45-18-7.1, 45-18-7.3, 45-18-7.5, and 45-18-7.6; by this Code section; or by any other provision of this part may be exercised only upon a determination by the department that the employer is an agency or instrumentality of the State of Georgia or, if the department determines that such entities are not agencies or instrumentalities of the State of Georgia, then employees and dependents of such entities may be included in the state employees' health insurance plan up to the point that such health plan would not be able to retain its exempt status under the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 45, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 45, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 506,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 508, § 3, eff. 7/1/2004.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 382, eff. 4/28/2001.
