# § 45-18-54. Continuation of optional plans; approval of optional plans or contracting with new or additional insurers

(a) The head of each department, agency, authority, or county department of health shall have the option to determine whether or not the employees within his respective agency shall continue any optional program that is in operation on January 1, 1986. New optional employee benefit plans or any contracting with new or additional insurers under existing plans that authorize the deduction or reduction of voluntarily designated amounts, including insurance, from the salaries of the full-time employees must be approved by the council after January 1, 1986, except that the Legislative Services Committee may continue or approve any optional program for members of the General Assembly and employees of the General Assembly.
(b) Each local board of education shall have the option to elect coverage in this program, and, in the event an employee rejects coverage, such employee shall be authorized to obtain coverage at a later date upon compliance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the council relative thereto. New optional employee benefit plans or any contracting with new or additional insurers under existing plans that authorize the deduction or reduction of voluntarily designated amounts, including insurance, from the salaries of the full-time employees must be approved by the council after January 1, 1991. Each local board of education electing to participate in the coverage under this plan shall be assessed a pro rata share of the cost of administering the plan.
(c) Each local board of education electing coverage shall have the option to determine whether or not the employees within the school system shall continue any optional program that is in operation on January 1, 1991.
(d) The Geo. L. Smith II Georgia World Congress Center Authority shall have the option to irrevocably elect or reject coverage for employees of the authority in this program no later than June 30, 2014. New optional employee benefit plans or any contracting with new or additional insurers under existing plans that authorize the deduction or reduction of voluntarily designated amounts, including insurance, from the salaries of the full-time employees must be approved by the council. If the authority elects to participate in the coverage under this plan, it shall be assessed a pro rata share of the cost of administering the plan.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 490,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2014.
