# § 45-18-38. Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System to be the successor to the State Personnel Board and Employee Benefit Council for administration of deferred compensation plans; employment of and contracting with agents

(a) Effective July 1, 2005, the Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia shall be the successor to the State Personnel Board for the purpose of administering any deferred compensation plan provided to employees as referenced in Code Sections 45-18-32 and 45-18-33. The State Personnel Board shall transfer individual accounts, associated funds, and any other applicable information in a manner prescribed by the Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia no later than September 30, 2005.
(b) The Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia shall be the successor to the Employee Benefit Council for the purpose of administering any deferred compensation plan provided to employees as referenced in Code Section 45-18-32. The Employee Benefit Council shall transfer individual accounts, associated funds, and any other applicable information in a manner prescribed by the Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia.
(c) The Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia is authorized to employ agents and to contract with such agents for their services as investment advisors and counselors who will make recommendations for investments and make investments as the board of trustees so authorizes.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 514,§ 1, eff. 4/19/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 23,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
