# § 45-18-5. County officers and employees

(a) The board is authorized to contract with the various counties of this state for the inclusion of the employees of any county within any health insurance plan or plans established under this part. The various counties of this state are authorized to contract with the board as provided in this Code section. In the event that any such contract is entered into, it shall be the duty of any counties so contracting to deduct from the salary or other compensation of its employees such payment as may be required under any health insurance plan and to remit the same to the board for inclusion in the health insurance fund. In addition, it shall be the duty of such county or counties to make the employer contributions required for the operation of such plan or plans. Should such county or counties fail to remit such deductions or such employer contributions, the commissioner may, upon written notice to such county or counties, terminate the coverage for such employees as of the day following the last day for which such deductions or such employer contributions were remitted to the board. Coverage may be reinstated upon the tender of any such deductions or employer contributions not previously remitted.
(b) County officials may elect to be included in a health insurance plan, health maintenance organization, or other health benefits plan offered or provided by a county for its county officials or any health plan or plans established under this part. The governing authority of a county may elect by majority vote to provide for payment in a uniform manner of any portion, all, or none of the employer contributions for or required premiums or payments due from the county officials or former county officials who under this Code section are eligible for inclusion in the health plan or plans established under this part. The board is authorized to contract with the County Officers Association of Georgia on behalf of the various counties of this state for the inclusion in any health insurance plan or plans established under this part of officials, spouses, and dependents of officials serving in one or more of the following capacities: probate judge, sheriff, tax commissioner or tax collector, clerk of the superior court, full-time or part-time state court judge, solicitor, state court clerk, or solicitor-general, chief magistrate, juvenile court judge, or members of the county governing authority and officials, spouses, and dependents of officials leaving office on or after December 31, 1996, who have served at least 12 years in one or more of the following capacities: probate judge, sheriff, tax commissioner or tax collector, clerk of the superior court, full-time or part-time state court judge, solicitor, state court clerk, or solicitor-general, chief magistrate, juvenile court judge, or members of the county governing authority. The County Officers Association of Georgia is authorized to contract with the board as provided in this Code section. In the event that such a contract is entered into, it shall be the duty of the County Officers Association of Georgia to collect from the various counties of this state with which it has contracted under this subsection and remit to the board such payment as may be required under any health insurance plan for inclusion in the health insurance fund. The County Officers Association of Georgia may add a reasonable fee to the premiums required under the plan to cover necessary administrative costs. In addition, it shall be the duty of the County Officers Association of Georgia to maintain and remit to the board accurate records of official, dependent, and other information required by the board to administer this Code section. Should the County Officers Association of Georgia fail to remit such payment, the commissioner may, upon written notice to the County Officers Association of Georgia, terminate the coverage for such officials as of the day following the last day for which such payment was remitted to the board. Coverage may be reinstated upon the tender of any such deductions or employer contributions not previously remitted.
(c) The various counties of this state are authorized to contract with the County Officers Association of Georgia for the inclusion in any health insurance plan or plans established under this part of officials, spouses, and dependents of officials serving in one or more of the following capacities: probate judge, sheriff, tax commissioner or tax collector, clerk of the superior court, full-time or part-time state court judge, solicitor, or solicitor-general, chief magistrate, juvenile court judge, or members of the county governing authority and officials, spouses, and dependents of officials leaving office on or after December 31, 1996, who have served at least 12 years in one or more of the following capacities: probate judge, sheriff, tax commissioner or tax collector, clerk of the superior court, full-time or part-time state court judge, solicitor, state court clerk, or solicitor-general, chief magistrate, juvenile court judge, or members of the county governing authority. The County Officers Association of Georgia is authorized to contract with the various counties of the state as provided in this Code section. In the event that any such contracts are entered into, it shall be the duty of any counties so contracting to deduct from the salary or other compensation of its officials and otherwise collect from former officials such payment as may be required under any health insurance plan and to remit the same to the County Officers Association of Georgia for payment to the board. To the extent employer contributions are not fully made by a county, it shall be the duty of the covered officials and former officials to make such employer contributions required on their behalf for the operation of such plan or plans. Should the County Officers Association of Georgia fail to remit such payment, the commissioner may, upon written notice to the County Officers Association of Georgia, terminate the coverage for such officials as of the day following the last day for which such payment was remitted to the board. Coverage may be reinstated upon the tender of any such deductions or employer contributions not previously remitted.
(c.1) Any local board of education may elect for members thereof and their spouses and dependents to be included in any health plan or plans established under Code Section 20-2-918. It shall be the duty of any local boards of education so electing to deduct from the salary or other compensation of its members such payment as may be required under paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-55 and to remit the same to the health insurance fund created under Code Section 20-2-918. Should any local board of education fail to remit such payment to the board, the provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 20-2-920 shall be applicable to such nonpayment.
(d) In administering this Code section, it shall be the responsibility of the board to develop rates for coverage based on the actual claims experience of the individuals covered by this Code section. The board shall require a bond satisfactory to the commissioner to assure the contractual performance of any entities with which it contracts under this Code section.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall preclude the exercise of any options or rights otherwise available to such county officers or members of local boards of education under other state or federal laws which relate to extension or continuation of health benefits.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 45, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 839, § 2, eff. 6/1/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 333, §2, eff. 7/1/2001.
