# § 45-18-27. Control of fund by commissioner; obligations to be paid from fund; investment powers; prohibition against personal interest

(a) Subject to the supervision of the board, the commissioner shall have control over the fund established by this part. The obligations provided for in this part and all administrative expenses shall be paid from the fund. The department may expend moneys from the fund for any purpose authorized by this part.
(b) Subject to the supervision of the board, the commissioner shall have full power to invest and reinvest its assets, subject to all of the terms, conditions, limitations, and restrictions imposed by Article 7 of Chapter 20 of Title 47, the "Public Retirement Systems Investment Authority Law" for large retirement systems. Subject to such terms, conditions, limitations, and restrictions, the commissioner shall have full power to hold, purchase, sell, assign, transfer, and dispose of any securities and investments in which any of the moneys are invested, including the proceeds of any investments and other moneys belonging to the fund. The records maintained by the fund shall have the same exemption from public inspection as that provided in Code Section 47-1-14.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this part, no member of the board or employee of the department shall have any personal interest in the gains or profits from any investment made by the board or use the assets of the fund in any manner, directly or indirectly, except to make such payments as may be authorized by the board or by the commissioner as the executive officer of the board in accordance with this part.

## History

Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 19,§ 2, eff. 4/21/2009.
