# § 45-18-12. Creation of health insurance fund; amounts credited to fund; special reserve; administrator and custodian of fund

(a) There is created a health insurance fund which shall be available without fiscal year limitations for premium, subscription charge, benefits, and administration costs. The amounts withheld from employees and retired employees under this part, all amounts contributed by the state or from federal funds to such health insurance fund, and all amounts contributed by any state authority pursuant to this part shall be credited to such health insurance fund. All other income, as well as the income derived from any dividends, premium rate adjustments, or other refunds under any contract or contracts, shall be credited to and constitute a part of such fund. Any amounts remaining in such fund after all premiums or subscription charges and other expenses have been paid shall be retained in such fund as a special reserve for adverse fluctuation. The commissioner of community health shall be executive officer of the Board of Community Health for the administration of this part and custodian of such health insurance fund and shall be responsible under a properly approved bond for all moneys coming into said fund and paid out of said fund as may be required to be paid to any contracting corporation under any contract entered into pursuant to this part and to cover administrative costs.
(b) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, the commissioner may combine the fund provided for in this Code section with the funds provided for in Code Section 20-2-891 and Code Section 20-2-918.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 45, eff. 6/3/2010.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 124,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2005.
