# § 45-18-5.1. Licensed blind or otherwise seriously disabled vendors

The Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency is authorized to contract with the Georgia Cooperative Services for the Blind, Inc., a nominee agent designated by the Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency, for the inclusion of licensed blind persons or other persons with disabilities operating a vending facility in accordance with Article 2 of Chapter 9 of Chapter 49 within any health insurance plan or plans established under this part. In the event any contract is entered into, it shall be the duty of the Georgia Cooperative Services for the Blind, Inc., to deduct the payment required under the plan from the earnings or other compensation of licensed blind persons or other persons with disabilities and remit it to the Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency for inclusion in the health insurance fund. In addition, it shall be the duty of the Georgia Cooperative Services for the Blind, Inc., to make the employer contributions required for the operation of such plan or plans. Should the Georgia Cooperative Services for the Blind, Inc., fail to remit such deductions or such employer contributions through the Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency, the board may, upon written notice to the Georgia Cooperative Services for the Blind, Inc., terminate the coverage for such employees as of the day following the last day for which such deductions or such employer contributions were remitted to the board. Coverage may be reinstated upon the tender of any such deductions or employer contributions not previously remitted.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 608,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 608,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 45, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 506,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
