# § 45-18-50. Definitions

(1) Reserved.
(2) "Council" means the Employee Benefit Plan Council established in Code Section 45-18-51.
(3) "Employee" means a member of the General Assembly or a person who works full time for the state and receives his or her compensation in a direct payment from a department, agency, authority, or institution of state government; a county department of family and children services or a county department of health; the Federal-State Shipping Point Inspection Service; the Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund; a member of any local board of education; and public school teachers and public school employees as defined in Code Sections 20-2-880 and 20-2-910, exclusive of the members, employees, and officials of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia.
(4) "Full time" means the employment of a person who works at least 30 hours per week and whose employment is intended to be continuing employment. This would exclude any student, seasonal, intermittent, or part-time employment; provided, however, that public school teachers and public school employees as defined in Code Sections 20-2-880 and 20-2-910 shall be deemed to be employed full time for the purposes of this article. This would also exclude employment intended for only a very limited duration or in a sheltered employment program for the purpose of training or transitioning a person into the continued employment environment.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-76, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 984, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 333, §3, eff. 7/1/2001.
