# § 45-18-7.3. Employees of Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund, and Sheriffs' Retirement Fund of Georgia, spouses, and dependent children

The board is authorized to contract with the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund, and the Sheriffs' Retirement Fund of Georgia for the inclusion in any health insurance plan or plans established under this part of the employees and retiring employees of said Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund, and Sheriffs' Retirement Fund of Georgia and their spouses and dependent children, as defined by the regulations of the board. It shall be the duty of said Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund, and Sheriffs' Retirement Fund of Georgia to deduct from the salary or other remuneration of their employees such payment as may be required under the board's regulations. In addition, it shall be the duty of said Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund, and Sheriffs' Retirement Fund of Georgia to make the employer contributions required for the operation of such plan or plans. Should the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund, or Sheriffs' Retirement Fund of Georgia fail to remit such deductions or such employer contributions to the board, the commissioner may, upon written notice to the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund, Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund, or Sheriffs' Retirement Fund of Georgia, as the case may be, terminate the coverage for such employees as of the day following the last day for which such deductions or such employer contributions were remitted to the board. Coverage may be reinstated upon the tender of any such deductions or employer contributions not previously remitted.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 45, eff. 5/2/2022.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 45, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 506,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2006.
