# § 45-18-25.1. Responsibilities and procedures for fund operation; rules and regulations; employment of personnel and professionals; maintenance of records; collection of moneys; report

(a) Responsibility for the proper operation of the fund is vested in the department.
(b) The board shall adopt actuarial assumptions as it deems necessary and prudent.
(c) The board may adopt any rules and regulations that it finds necessary to properly administer the fund.
(d) The board shall adopt rules and regulations to account for employer contributions and other assets separately.
(e) The commissioner, as executive officer of the board, shall employ such personnel as may be needed to carry out the provisions of this part and such personnel shall be employees of the department. The pro rata share of the costs of operating the department in the manner prescribed by law shall be a part of the administrative costs of the fund.
(f) The department may employ or contract for the services of actuaries and other professionals as required to carry out the duties established by this part.
(g) The department shall contract with the Division of Investment Services of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia for any necessary services with respect to fund investments.
(h) The department shall maintain all necessary records regarding the fund in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, as applicable to the fund.
(i) The department shall collect all moneys due to the fund and shall pay any administrative expenses necessary and appropriate for the operation of the fund from the fund.
(j) The department shall prepare an annual report of fund activities for the board, the House Committee on Appropriations, and the Senate Appropriations Committee. Such reports shall include, but not be limited to, audited financial statements. The reports shall contain the most recent information reasonably available to the department reflecting the obligations of the fund, earnings on investments, and such other information as the board deems necessary and appropriate. This report is due September 30 and shall reflect activity on a state fiscal year basis.
(k) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, the department shall be entitled to any information that it deems necessary and appropriate from a retirement system in order that the provisions of Code Section 45-18-26 may be carried out.
