# § 45-18-18. Discharge of certain debts or obligations due health insurance fund

(a) It is the purpose of this Code section to authorize a procedure whereby the commissioner of community health may administratively discharge a debt or obligation due the health insurance fund for employees of the state when the amount is $400.00 or less and:
  (1) It is manifest that the debt or obligation is uncollectable; or
  (2) The costs of collecting the debt or obligation would be equal to or greater than the amount due the fund.
(b) In order to conserve the health insurance funds, the commissioner of community health is authorized to develop a procedure that complies with the policies prescribed by the state accounting officer for the administrative discharge of any debt or obligation due the insurance fund when such debt or obligation is $400.00 or less. This provision shall not be construed to deny to the commissioner the authority to pursue the collection of any debt, obligation, or claim in any amount whatsoever when such pursuit is in the best interest of the insurance fund.
(c) Upon a formal determination that a debt or obligation to the insurance fund of $400.00 or less is uncollectable, or that the costs of collection would equal or exceed the amount due the fund, the commissioner of community health shall execute and transmit to the state accounting officer a certification which includes the following: a recapitulation of the efforts made to collect the debt or obligation; an estimate of the costs to pursue collection of the debt or obligation administratively or judicially; such other information as may be required by the procedure developed by the commissioner and the state accounting officer; and a statement that further collection effort would be detrimental to the financial interests of the fund. The certification shall be made under oath or affirmation and shall be sent to the state accounting officer at such times as shall be prescribed in the procedure developed by the commissioner and the state accounting officer. Upon receipt of the certification, the state accounting officer shall be authorized to approve the removal of such uncollectable amounts from the financial records of the fund.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 140,§ 37, eff. 7/1/2005.
