# § 45-18-10. Right of continuation of coverage for former employees; payment of premiums; establishment of terms and conditions by board; appointment as United States attorney

(a) Any other provision of this part to the contrary notwithstanding, on and after July 1, 1978, any employee who resigns from employment or who fails to be reelected or who does not seek reelection to office and who at the time he or she leaves office or employment has completed eight or more years of service as an employee, as defined in Code Section 45-18-1, shall be entitled to continue full coverage and participation, including coverage for his or her spouse and dependent children, in the health insurance plan upon the payment of a monthly premium to be fixed by the board; and, in addition thereto, any member of the General Assembly who ceases to hold office as such at any time after July 1, 1981, and who was eligible to retire at the time of leaving office, except for the attainment of retirement age, pursuant to a public retirement system created by law to which the General Assembly appropriates funds, and who does not withdraw employee contributions from such public retirement system, shall be entitled to continue full coverage and participation, including coverage for the spouse and dependent children of such person, in the health insurance plan by continuing to pay to the board the monthly premium which is paid by an active state employee. The first monthly premium provided for in this Code section must be paid within 30 days following receipt of a notice of premium to be sent to such person by the board. If such premium is not paid within such time limit, such insurance coverage shall be canceled and such person shall not again be eligible to participate in such plan. This Code section shall not affect the rights otherwise available under this part to retired employees and their spouses and dependents. The board is authorized to establish terms and conditions for participation which the board shall deem appropriate and which are not in conflict with this Code section.
(b) Subject to such rules as the office may establish, any district attorney or assistant district attorney who ceases to hold office as such in order to accept appointment as a United States attorney or assistant United States attorney, who was eligible to retire at the time of leaving office, except for the attainment of retirement age, pursuant to a public retirement system created by law to which the General Assembly appropriates funds, and did not withdraw employee contributions from such public retirement system, who declines coverage under this plan in order to be covered under a health benefit plan available to federal employees, and who ceases to hold such position with the federal government without having vested in any retirement system for federal employees may be permitted to reestablish full coverage and participation, including coverage for the spouse and dependent children of such person, in the health insurance plan by notifying the board within 90 days of ceasing to be employed by the federal government or by August 1, 1998, whichever is later, that he or she desires to resume coverage in the health insurance plan and by paying to the board the monthly premium which is paid by an active state employee.
(c) Any other provision of this part to the contrary notwithstanding, any employee who is injured by an act of inmate violence while he or she is employed as a correctional officer in a correctional facility in this state and is five years or less from becoming eligible for medicare medical coverage shall be exempt from the eight or more years of service requirement and shall be entitled to continue full coverage and participation, including coverage for his or her spouse and dependent children, in the health insurance plan upon the payment of the monthly premium fixed by the board for active state employees. The first monthly premium provided for in this subsection must be paid within 30 days following receipt of a notice of premium to be sent to such person by the commissioner. If such premium is not paid within such time limit, such insurance coverage shall be canceled and such person shall not again be eligible to participate in such plan.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 45, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 913,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 506,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 344, § 3, eff. 7/1/2001.
