# § 45-18-9. Continuation of coverage for spouse or dependents of deceased employees; resumption of coverage; payment of contributions; regulating continuance, discontinuance, and resumption of coverage

(a) At the time of death of any employee, annuitant, or other person who is the primary or principal beneficiary of said contract or contracts for health insurance and who dies on or after March 1, 1966, having at least 13 years and four months of creditable service as determined pursuant to Chapter 2 of Title 47, any spouse or dependent child or children included in the coverage of the contract or contracts for health insurance as provided in this part may be entitled to continue such coverage upon agreeing to pay contributions to the cost of such coverage as may be provided by rules and regulations of the board. The board shall be authorized to promulgate and adopt rules and regulations governing the continuance, discontinuance, and resumption of coverage by any such spouse or dependent child or children.
(b) At the time of death of any employee, annuitant, or other person who was the primary or principal beneficiary of said contract or contracts for health insurance and who died during the period from July 1, 1962, to and including April 30, 1966, any spouse or dependent child or children included in the coverage of the contract or contracts for health insurance as provided in this part may be entitled to resume such coverage upon agreeing to pay contributions to the cost of such coverage as may be provided by rules and regulations of the board. The board may promulgate and adopt rules and regulations governing the resumption, continuance, and discontinuance of coverage by any such spouse or dependent child or children.
(c) At the time of death of any employee, annuitant, or other person who is the primary or principal beneficiary of said contract or contracts for health insurance pursuant to Chapter 8 of Title 47, or as determined pursuant to Chapter 9, 12, or 13 of Title 47, any annuitant included in the coverage of the contract or contracts for health insurance as provided in this part may be entitled to continue such coverage upon agreeing to pay contributions to the cost of such coverage as may be provided by rules and regulations of the board. The board shall be authorized to promulgate and adopt rules and regulations governing the continuance, discontinuance, and resumption of coverage by any such spouse or dependent child or children.
(d) The surviving spouse and covered dependents of any retired employee who are included in the contract or contracts for health insurance coverage under this part shall be eligible to continue such coverage after the death of the retired employee upon agreeing to pay employee premiums for such coverage in accordance with the rules and regulations of the board. The board is authorized and directed to promulgate and adopt rules and regulations governing the continuance, discontinuance, or resumption of coverage by any such surviving spouse and covered dependents. This subsection shall not apply unless the parties have been married at least one full year prior to the death of the retired employee; and coverage shall cease for the covered spouse upon the occurrence of any event, other than the death of the retired employee, which would render the surviving spouse ineligible for continued coverage under the contract. For purposes of the immediately preceding sentence relating to covered spouses, the remarriage of the surviving spouse shall be considered to be the same as a divorce from the retired employee for purposes of determining the spouse's eligibility.
(e) If any employee of this state is killed while acting within the scope of his or her employment or receives bodily injury while acting within the scope of his or her employment that directly results in death thereafter, eligible dependents may continue coverage, provided that:
  (1) The deceased employee was the primary or principal beneficiary of any contract or contracts for health insurance established under this part;
  (2) At the time of death, the employee included his or her eligible dependents under such contract or contracts for health insurance;
  (3) At the time of death, the employee maintained continuous coverage during the period between injury and death;
  (4) The eligible dependents agree to pay the contributions to the cost of such coverage; and
  (5) The eligible dependents pay such contributions in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated and adopted by the board governing the continuance, discontinuance, and resumption of coverage by such eligible dependents; provided, however, that, on and after May 11, 2011, any eligible dependents of a deceased employee of this state killed in the line of duty who are receiving continued coverage or who elect to continue coverage pursuant to this subsection shall be entitled to continue such coverage under the health insurance plan established pursuant to this part upon agreeing to pay contributions at the same rate as required for state employees and in compliance with the rules and regulations governing such coverage.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 118,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 45, eff. 6/3/2010.
