# § 15-10-41. No jury trials; appeal

(a) There shall be no jury trials in the magistrate court.
(b)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, appeals may be had from judgments returned in the magistrate court to the state court of the county or to the superior court of the county and the same provisions now provided for by general law for appeals contained in Chapter 3 of Title 5 shall be applicable to appeals from the magistrate court, the same to be a de novo appeal. The provisions of Chapter 3 of Title 5 shall also apply to appeals to state court.
  (2) No appeal shall lie from a default judgment or from a dismissal for want of prosecution after a nonappearance of a plaintiff for trial. Any voluntary dismissal by the plaintiff or by order of the court for want of prosecution shall be without prejudice except that the filing of a second such dismissal shall operate as an adjudication upon the merits. Review, including review of a denial of a postjudgment motion to vacate a judgment, shall be by petition for review to the state court of that county or to the superior court of that county. Upon a reversal of a default judgment or reversal of a refusal to open a default judgment, the magistrate court shall retain jurisdiction to hear the merits of the case de novo.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 424,§ 4, eff. 4/22/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 875,§ 2-9, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to petitions for review filed in superior or state court on or after such date.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 720,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
