# § 15-10-100. Appointment of constables; compensation; chief constable

(a) Unless otherwise provided by local law, the county governing authority may provide for the appointment of constables by the chief magistrate. Constables so appointed shall serve at the pleasure of the chief magistrate. The compensation of constables so appointed shall be fixed by the county governing authority.
(b) If no provision is made for the appointment of constables the sheriff and his deputies shall perform the duties of constables.
(c) The General Assembly may by local law provide for the appointment of constables and their salaries.
(c.1)
  (1) In addition to the alternatives provided in subsections (a), (b), and (c) of this Code section, the governing authority of a county may employ marshals to perform the duties of constables.
  (2) No person employed or appointed as a marshal pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall exercise any of the powers or authority which are by law vested in the office of sheriff or any other peace officer, including the power of arrest, except as may be authorized by law.
  (3) Any person employed or appointed as a marshal pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall meet the requirements of Chapter 8 of Title 35.
(d) All constables shall be compensated solely on a salary basis and not in whole or in part from fees; and their salaries shall be paid in equal monthly installments from county funds.
(e) If there is more than one constable, one shall be appointed as chief constable and shall supervise the other constables.
