# § 15-10-137. Training requirements of certified magistrates

(a) In order to become certified under this article, any person who becomes a magistrate on or after July 1, 1998, shall satisfactorily complete 80 hours of training specified by the council concerning the performance of his or her duties during the first two years after becoming a magistrate.
(b) Any person who becomes a magistrate on or after July 1, 1998, shall complete during the initial year of service as a magistrate a program of orientation activities established by the council and conducted under the guidance and supervision of an experienced adviser or mentor magistrate or judge.
(c)
  (1) In order to maintain the status of a certified magistrate judge, each person certified as such shall complete the minimum number of training hours required by the council per annum during each calendar year after the year of his or her initial certification in which he or she serves as a magistrate judge.
  (2) If a magistrate or senior magistrate completes training hours in excess of the number of hours required by the council, credit for the training so completed, not to exceed six hours, shall be carried over and applied to the next calendar year.
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, any magistrate who is also an active member of the State Bar of Georgia shall be certified as a certified magistrate by the council without being required to complete any training otherwise required by subsection (a) of this Code section but shall be required to complete the mentor program of subsection (b) of this Code section within 12 months of taking office as magistrate and the annual training required by subsection (c) of this Code section, commencing with the first full calendar year following the year in which such a magistrate takes office.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 172,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 110,§ 2, eff. 5/4/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 897, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
