# § 15-10-105. Selection of clerk; compensation; eligibility

(a) The General Assembly may provide by local law for the superior court clerk or state court clerk to serve as clerk of magistrate court or for the selection of some other person as the clerk of magistrate court and for the compensation of the clerk of magistrate court. In the absence of local law, the selection and compensation of the clerk of magistrate court shall be as provided by subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Code section.
(b) With the consent of the clerk of superior court, the county governing authority may provide that the clerk of superior court shall serve as clerk of magistrate court and shall be compensated for his or her service as clerk of magistrate court in an amount not less than $393.66 per month. With the consent of the clerk of the superior court and clerk of the state court, the county governing authority may provide that the state court clerk shall serve as clerk of magistrate court and shall be compensated for his or her service as clerk of magistrate court in an amount not less than $393.66 per month. Such compensation shall be retained by the clerk of superior court as his or her personal funds without regard to whether he or she is otherwise compensated on a fee basis or salary basis or both.
(c) If the clerk of superior court or the clerk of state court does not serve as clerk of magistrate court, then the county governing authority may provide for the appointment by the chief magistrate of a clerk to serve at the pleasure of the chief magistrate. A clerk of magistrate court so appointed shall be compensated in an amount fixed by the county governing authority at not less than $393.66 per month.
(d) If there is no clerk of magistrate court, the chief magistrate or some other magistrate appointed by the chief magistrate shall perform the duties of clerk. A chief magistrate performing the duties of clerk, or another magistrate appointed by the chief magistrate to perform the duties of clerk, shall receive, in addition to any other compensation to which he or she is entitled, compensation for performing the duties of clerk, the amount of which compensation shall be fixed by the county governing authority at not less than $393.66 per month.
(e) The compensation of the clerk or magistrate performing the duties of clerk shall be paid in equal monthly installments from county funds.
(f) The clerk shall be required to be at least 18 years of age and shall possess a high school diploma or its equivalent. The clerk shall not be subject to a residency requirement.
(g) In any case any magistrate may perform any duty to be performed by the clerk.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 198,§ 2, eff. 5/4/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 15, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 649,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 291, § 10, eff. 1/1/2002.
