# § 15-10-60. Applicability of article; suspended sentences

(a) This article governs trials of violations of county ordinances and ordinances of state authorities, which violations may be punished by incarceration or monetary penalty. Nothing in this chapter shall grant to any county or state authority more authority to enact or enforce such ordinances than the county or state authority has independently of this chapter. The punishment imposed for any ordinance violation shall not exceed a fine of $1,000.00 or six months' imprisonment or both, provided the judge shall probate not less than 120 days of any sentence imposed, except as otherwise provided by general law, and shall not exceed the maximum punishment specified by the ordinance. In the event a sentence is revoked, a defendant shall not serve more than 60 days in a county jail.
(b) The trial court may suspend the service of the sentence imposed in the case upon such terms and conditions as it may prescribe for the payment of the fine, for performance of community service in lieu of a fine or incarceration, for the payment of restitution to a victim, or other condition relating to the underlying offense. Service of the sentence, when so suspended, shall not begin unless and until ordered by the court having jurisdiction thereof, after a hearing as in cases of revocation of probated sentences, because of the failure or refusal of the defendant to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of a sentence was suspended. Service of all or any part of any sentence suspended upon such conditions may be ordered to commence by the trial court any time before the expiration of one year from the date of the sentence after a hearing and a finding by the court that the defendant has failed or refused to comply with the terms and conditions upon which service of the sentence was suspended.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 168, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
