# § 15-10-20. Number; selection; term; filling vacancies; chief magistrate; bonds

(a) Each magistrate court shall have a chief magistrate and may have one or more other magistrates. Such magistrates shall be the judges of the magistrate court and shall be known as magistrates of the county. Unless otherwise provided by local law, the number of magistrates in each county shall be fixed from time to time by majority vote of the judges of the superior court of the county, but no magistrate shall be removed from office during a term of office except for cause as provided by Code Sections 15-10-24 and 15-10-25. The number of magistrates authorized for the county shall be one magistrate until increased by the judges of superior court or by local law; but this subsection shall not operate to remove a magistrate from office during his or her term of office.
(b) The term of office of any magistrate taking office on or after January 1, 1985, shall be for four years beginning on the first day of an odd-numbered year, except that in selecting magistrates to fill newly created positions or if otherwise necessary, a magistrate may be selected for a term of less than four years to expire on the last day of an even-numbered year.
(c) Unless otherwise provided by local law, all magistrates taking office on or after January 1, 1985, shall be selected as provided in this subsection. The chief magistrate shall be elected by the voters of the county at the general election next preceding the expiration of the term of the incumbent chief magistrate, in a partisan election in the same manner as county officers are elected, for a term beginning on the first day of January following his or her election. His or her successors shall likewise be elected quadrennially thereafter for terms beginning on the first day of January following their election. Magistrates other than the chief magistrate shall be appointed by the chief magistrate with the consent of the judges of superior court. The term of a magistrate so appointed shall run concurrently with the term of the chief magistrate by whom he or she was appointed.
(d) Unless otherwise provided by local law, a vacancy in the office of chief magistrate shall be filled by an appointment by majority vote of the judges of superior court for the remainder of the unexpired term; and a vacancy in the office of any other magistrate shall be filled by an appointment by the chief magistrate with the consent of the judges of superior court for the remainder of the unexpired term. If, however, a vacancy occurs which does not reduce the number of magistrates for the county below the number of magistrates authorized for the county, then such vacancy shall not be filled.
(e) The General Assembly may by local law provide for the number of magistrates of a county, provide for a different method of selecting magistrates than that specified in subsection (d) of this Code section, and provide for a different method of filling vacancies than that specified in subsection (d) of this Code section.
(f) The General Assembly may at any time provide by local law that the probate judge shall serve as chief magistrate or magistrate and provide for compensation of the probate judge in his or her capacity as chief magistrate or magistrate; and in such a case the chief magistrate or magistrate shall not be separately elected but shall be the probate judge.
(g) Each magistrate taking office after July 1, 1985, shall before entering on the performance of his or her duties execute bond in the amount of $100,000.00 for the faithful performance of his or her duties. Each magistrate in office on July 1, 1985, shall execute such a bond not later than September 1, 1985. The amount of bond required of the magistrate or magistrates of any county may be increased by local law. Such bonds shall be subject to all provisions of Chapter 4 of Title 45 in the same manner as bonds of other county officials. The premiums due on such bonds shall be paid by the fiscal authority of the county out of county funds.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 227,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
See 2024 Ga. Laws 363, § 2.
See 2024 Ga. Laws 363, § 1.
