# § 15-10-260. Jurisdiction; penalties

(a) This article governs trials of misdemeanor violations of Code Sections 16-13-30, 16-13-2, 16-8-14, 16-8-14.1, 3-3-23, and 16-7-21.
(b) Magistrate courts are authorized to conduct trials and impose sentences for violations of misdemeanors specified in subsection (a) of this Code section; provided, however, that the violation must have occurred in the unincorporated area of the county.
(c) A person convicted of violation of a misdemeanor specified in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be punished as provided in paragraphs (1) through (4) of this subsection as follows:
  (1) For possession of less than one ounce of marijuana, as provided in subsection (b) of Code Section 16-13-2;
  (2) For misdemeanor theft by shoplifting, as provided in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 16-8-14;
  (3) For misdemeanor refund fraud, as provided in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 16-8-14.1;
  (4) For furnishing alcoholic beverages to, and purchase and possession of alcoholic beverages by, a person under 21 years of age, as provided in Code Section 3-3-23.1; and
  (5) For criminal trespass, as provided in subsection (d) of Code Section 16-7-21.
(d) The jurisdiction of magistrate courts to try and dispose of the misdemeanor violations enumerated in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be concurrent with the jurisdiction of any other courts having jurisdiction to try and dispose of such cases.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 566,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 709,§ VIII-8-2, eff. 7/1/2012.
