# § 50-34-3. Creation, membership of board of directors, power, and authority of OneGeorgia Authority

(a) There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the OneGeorgia Authority which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the state, and not a state agency, and a public corporation performing an essential governmental function.
(b) The board of directors of the authority shall consist of the Governor, who shall serve as chair of the authority; the Lieutenant Governor, who shall serve as co-vice chair of the authority; the Speaker of the House of Representatives, who shall serve as co-vice chair of the authority; the director of the Office of Planning and Budget, who shall serve as secretary of the authority; the commissioner of community affairs; the commissioner of economic development; and the commissioner of revenue.
(c) Except for the authorization of the issuance of bonds, the authority may delegate to the executive director such powers and duties as it may deem proper.
(d) The Governor shall appoint an executive director of the authority whose compensation shall be fixed by the authority.
(e) No part of the funds of the authority shall inure to the benefit of or be distributed to its members or officers or other private persons, except that the authority shall be authorized and empowered to pay reasonable compensation for services rendered and to reimburse expenses incurred. In addition, the authority shall be authorized and empowered to make loans and grants, allocate credits, provide financial assistance, and otherwise exercise its other powers in furtherance of its corporate purposes. No such loans or grants or financial assistance shall be made to, no credits shall be allocated to, and no property shall be purchased or leased from or sold, leased, or otherwise disposed of to any member or officer of the authority in his or her individual capacity or by virtue of partnership or ownership of a for profit corporation. This subsection does not preclude loans or grants to, financial assistance or allocation of credit to, or purchase or lease from or sale, lease, or disposal of property to any subsidiary corporation of the authority.
(f) The Attorney General shall provide legal services for the authority, and, in connection therewith, Code Sections 45-15-13 through 45-15-16 shall be fully applicable.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 423,§ 5-2, eff. 5/7/2018.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 43, eff. 7/1/2004.
