# § 50-34-19. Border Region Retail Tourism Development Program; definition; procedure for implementation

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "border region" means any part of the state that lies within 25 miles of a state border.
(b) Subject to appropriations, the authority shall establish and administer a grant program to be called the Border Region Retail Tourism Development Program, which shall serve the purpose of awarding grants to eligible applicants to induce businesses to, or assist businesses that intend to, relocate, expand, or construct projects in Georgia rather than a bordering state.
(c) The amount of any grant awarded pursuant to this Code section shall be determined by the authority on a case-by-case review of applications consistent with criteria to be prescribed by the authority which shall include, but shall not be limited to, the:
  (1) Number and type of jobs retained or created;
  (2) Total private capital investment;
  (3) Impact on the state, regional, and community tax base;
  (4) Degree of local commitment;
  (5) Consistency with local and regional development goals and objectives;
  (6) Project readiness and feasibility;
  (7) Geographic distribution of existing retail and tourism facilities; and
  (8) Reasonableness of cost estimates.
(d) All applications for grants under this Code section shall include a recommendation from a state agency whose statutory powers and duties include community and economic development that the proposed project will significantly develop, promote, and retain trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities within the border region and promote the general welfare of the state.
(e) After reviewing an application, the authority shall submit any pending grant award to the Governor and the commissioner of economic development for approval before such grant shall be awarded.
(f) The authority shall adopt such rules and regulations as are reasonable and necessary to implement and administer the grant program established under this Code section.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 249,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
