# § 50-34-17. OneGeorgia Authority Overview Committee established; duties

(a) There is established the OneGeorgia Authority Overview Committee to be composed of one member of the House of Representatives to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives, one member of the Senate to be appointed by the President of the Senate, the director of the Senate Budget and Evaluation Office or his or her designee, the director of the House Budget and Research Office or his or her designee, and two members of the General Assembly to be appointed by the Governor. The legislative members shall serve for terms as members of the committee concurrent with their terms of office as members of the General Assembly. The first members of the committee shall be appointed by not later than July 1, 2000. Thereafter, their successors shall be appointed during the first 30 days of each regular legislative session which is held immediately following the election of members of the General Assembly.
(b) The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall designate one of the members appointed by the Speaker as chairperson of the committee. The President of the Senate shall designate one of the members appointed by the President of the Senate as vice chairperson of the committee. The members designated as chairperson and vice chairperson shall serve for terms as such officers concurrent with their terms as members of the committee. Other than the chairperson and vice chairperson provided for in this subsection, the committee shall provide for its own organization.
(c) The committee shall periodically inquire into and review the operations, contracts, safety, financing, organization, and structure of the OneGeorgia Authority, as well as periodically review and evaluate the success with which said authority is accomplishing its legislatively created purposes.
(d) The OneGeorgia Authority shall cooperate with the committee and its authorized personnel in order that the committee may efficiently and effectively carry out its duties. The OneGeorgia Authority shall submit to the committee such reports and data as the committee shall reasonably require of said authority in order that the committee may adequately inform itself of the activities of said authority. The committee shall, on or before the first day of January of each year and at such other times as it deems to be in the public interest, submit to the General Assembly a report of its findings and recommendations based upon the review of the operations of the OneGeorgia Authority.
(e) The members of the committee shall receive the same expenses and allowances for their services on the committee as are authorized by law for members of interim legislative study committees.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to relieve the OneGeorgia Authority of the responsibilities imposed upon it under this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 50, eff. 4/29/2014.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 50, eff. 4/18/2002.
