# § 50-34-20. Grant program to establish primary care medical facilities in health professional shortage areas; application; amount of award; approval; regulations

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Mental health care provider" means:
    (A) A clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health authorized under the laws of this state to practice as a registered professional nurse and who is recognized by the Georgia Board of Nursing to be engaged in advanced nursing practice as a clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health;
    (B) A clinical social worker authorized to practice under the laws of this state;
    (C) A marriage and family therapist authorized to practice under the laws of this state;
    (D) A professional counselor authorized to practice under the laws of this state;
    (E) A psychologist authorized to practice under the laws of this state; and
    (F) A psychiatrist authorized to practice under the laws of this state.
  (2) "Primary care medical facility" means any facility where the majority of the services provided are primary care, dental, or mental health services.
  (3) "Primary care medical provider" means any person authorized under the laws of this state to practice as a dentist, physician, or mental health care provider.
(b) Subject to available funding, the authority shall establish and administer a grant program which shall serve the purpose of awarding grants to eligible applicants to establish primary care medical facilities in health professional shortage areas as designated by the Department of Community Health.
(c) Any development authority established pursuant to Chapter 62 of Title 36 shall be eligible to apply for such a grant provided that, prior to application, the local governing bodies that created such authority have endorsed the proposed project in writing and have pledged to contribute to the project as prescribed by the rules and regulations of the authority.
(d) To the extent permitted by Chapter 62 of Title 36, a development authority may:
  (1) Enter into a lease-purchase agreement with one or more primary care medical providers to lease and operate the primary care medical facility established with funds provided pursuant to this Code section; and
  (2) Convey any remaining ownership interest in such facility to such primary care medical providers who have provided services at the facility under such lease-purchase agreement for at least ten years.
(e) The amount of any grant awarded pursuant to this Code section shall not exceed $200,000.00 and shall be determined by the authority on a case-by-case review of applications consistent with criteria to be prescribed by the authority which shall include, but shall not be limited to, the:
  (1) Primary care shortage in the community;
  (2) Degree of local commitment;
  (3) Consistency with local and regional healthcare goals and objectives;
  (4) Project readiness and feasibility;
  (5) Geographic distribution of existing primary care facilities; and
  (6) Reasonableness of cost estimates.
(f) All applications for grants under this Code section shall include a recommendation from the Department of Community Health that the proposed project will significantly develop and promote a primary care medical facility and promote the general welfare of this state.
(g) After reviewing an application, the authority shall submit any pending grant award to the Governor and the Board of Community Health for approval before such grant shall be awarded.
(h) The authority shall adopt such rules and regulations as are reasonable and necessary to implement and administer the grant program established under this Code section.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 815,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
