# § 37-4-108. Right of clients or representatives to petition for writ of habeas corpus and for judicial protection of rights and privileges granted by chapter

(a) At any time and without notice, a person detained by a facility or a mental health care agent, legal guardian, relative, or friend on behalf of such person may petition as provided by law for a writ of habeas corpus to question the cause and legality of detention and to request any court of competent jurisdiction on its own initiative to issue a writ for release, provided that in the case of any such petition for the release of a person detained in a facility pursuant to a court order under Code Section 17-7-130 or 17-7-131, a copy of the petition, along with proper certificate of service, shall also be served upon the presiding judge of the court ordering such detention and the prosecuting attorney for such court, which service may be made by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested.
(b) A client or his or her representatives may file a petition in the appropriate court alleging that the client is being unjustly denied a right or privilege granted by this chapter or that a procedure authorized by this chapter is being abused. An oral statement by a client or his or her representatives to any staff member or other service provider alleging that the client's rights or privileges under this chapter are being violated shall be immediately transmitted to the superintendent, the regional state hospital administrator, or the administrative head of the facility responsible for the client's treatment or the other person in charge of the client's habilitation plan, who shall assist the client in preparing his or her petition under this Code section. Upon the filing of such a petition, the court shall have the authority to conduct a judicial inquiry and to issue appropriate orders to correct any abuse under this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 836,§ 2-27, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 1-13, eff. 7/1/2002.
