# § 37-4-124. Mistreatment, neglect, or abuse of clients prohibited; use of medication, physical restraints, or seclusion restricted; standards for use of physical restraints

(a) Mistreatment, neglect, or abuse in any form of any client is prohibited. Medication in quantities that interfere with the client's habilitation program is prohibited. All medication, seclusion, or physical restraints are to be used solely for the purposes of providing effective habilitation and protecting the safety of the client and other persons. Restraints shall not be employed as punishment, for the convenience of the staff, or as a substitute for programs.
(b) Physical restraints shall not be applied unless:
  (1) A person who is involved in the care and treatment of the client as a physician, psychologist, or clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health determines such restraints to be necessary in order to prevent a client from seriously injuring himself or herself or others; or
  (2) A professional staff member determines that there exists an emergency requiring the use of such restraints. For purposes of this Code section, an emergency exists when the client presents an immediate danger of injury to himself or herself or others. The authorization of physical restraints by a professional staff member shall be immediately reported to a physician and any psychologist involved in the care and treatment of the client. A physician's, psychologist's, or clinical nurse specialist's in psychiatric/mental health order for restraints shall expire after 12 hours, at which time a new determination of the need for restraints must be made. The physician, psychologist involved in the care and treatment of the client, or clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health involved in the care and treatment of the client must issue a written order for each use of restraints. The facility shall have written policies and procedures which govern the use of such restraints and which clearly delineate, in descending order, the personnel who can authorize the use of restraints in emergency situations.
(c) Every use of physical restraints shall be made a part of the resident's clinical record. The following shall be documented in the record:
  (1) The reasons for applying the restraint;
  (2) The signature of the person authorizing the restraint;
  (3) The time of application and removal of the restraint; and
  (4) A record of checks at least every 30 minutes by a staff member trained in use of restraints and the signature of the person making such checks. A copy of each use of restraint shall be forwarded to the superintendent or regional state hospital administrator for review.
(d) For the purposes of this Code section, those devices which restrain movement but are applied for protection from accidental injury or are required for the medical treatment of the client's physical condition or for supportive or corrective needs of the client shall not be considered physical restraints. However, devices used in such situations must be authorized and applied in compliance with the facility's policies and procedures. The use of any such devices shall be recorded in writing as a part of the client's individualized program plan.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 971, § 1-19, eff. 7/1/2002.
