# § 37-4-61. Transportation of clients generally

(a) The governing authority of the county where the client is found or located shall arrange for initial emergency transport of a client to an emergency receiving facility. Except as otherwise authorized under subsection (b) of this Code section, the governing authority of the county of the client's residence shall arrange for all required transportation for developmental disability services subsequent to the initial transport. The type of vehicle employed shall be determined by the governing authority of the county, provided that, whenever possible, marked vehicles normally used for the transportation of criminals or those accused of crimes shall not be used for the transportation of clients. The court, upon the request of the community developmental disability program, shall order the sheriff to transport the client in such manner as the client's condition demands. At any time such community developmental disability program is satisfied that the client can be transported safely by family members or friends, such private transportation shall be encouraged and authorized. In nonemergency situations, no female client shall be transported at any time without another female in attendance who is not a client, unless such female client is accompanied by her husband, father, adult brother, or adult son.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section, when a client is under the care of a facility, the facility shall have the discretion to determine the type of vehicle to safely transport the client and to arrange for such transportation without the need to obtain the prior approval of the governing authority of the county of the client's residence, the court, or the community developmental disability program. This subsection shall not prevent the facility from requesting and receiving transportation services from the governing authority of the county of the client's residence and shall not relieve the county sheriff of the duty of providing transportation. Persons providing transportation are authorized to transport a patient from a sending facility to a receiving facility but shall not release the client under any circumstances except into the custody of the receiving facility. The use of physical restraints to ensure the safe transport of the client shall comply with the requirements of Code Section 37-4-124. When transportation is not provided by the county sheriff, the expense of such transportation shall not be billed to the county governing authority but may be billed to the client and, unless agreed to in writing by the facility, shall not be billed to or considered an obligation of the facility.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 894, § 2, eff. 7/1/2002.
