# § 31-17-4.2. HIV and syphilis pregnancy screening

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "Georgia HIV/Syphilis Pregnancy Screening Act of 2015."
(b) Except in cases where the pregnant woman refuses the testing, a pregnant woman shall be tested for HIV and syphilis:
  (1) At the pregnant woman's first prenatal visit;
  (2) When she is at 28-32 weeks' gestation; and
  (3) At delivery. Each such test shall be conducted by the physician or other healthcare provider who is providing prenatal care for such pregnant woman at each such point in the woman's pregnancy.
(c) If the woman tests positive for HIV or syphilis, counseling services provided by the Department of Public Health shall be made available to her and she shall be referred to appropriate medical care providers for herself and her child.
(d) If for any reason the pregnant woman is not tested for HIV and syphilis, that fact shall be recorded in the patient's records, which, if based upon the refusal of the patient, shall relieve the physician or other healthcare provider of any other responsibility under this Code section.
(e) The Department of Public Health shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations for the purpose of administering the requirements under this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 230,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 568,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 218,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 60,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
