# § 31-17-4.1. Chlamydia screening test

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Chlamydia screening test" means any laboratory test of the urogenital tract which specifically detects for infection by one or more agents of chlamydia trachomatis and which test is approved for such purposes by the federal Food and Drug Administration.
  (2) "Policy" means any benefit plan, contract, or policy except a disability income policy, specified disease policy, or hospital indemnity policy.
(b)
  (1) Every insurer authorized to issue an individual or group accident and sickness insurance policy in this state which includes coverage for any female shall include as part of or as a required endorsement to each such policy which is issued, delivered, issued for delivery, or renewed on or after July 1, 1998, coverage for one annual chlamydia screening test for those covered females who are not more than 29 years old.
  (2) The coverage required under paragraph (1) of this subsection may be subject to such exclusions, reductions, or other limitations as to coverages, deductibles, or coinsurance provisions as may be approved by the Commissioner of Insurance.
  (3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit the issuance of accident and sickness insurance policies which provide benefits greater than or more favorable to the insured than those required by paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (4) The provisions of this subsection shall apply to accident and sickness insurance policies issued by a fraternal benefit society, a health care plan, a health maintenance organization, or any similar entity.
  (5) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be deemed to prohibit the payment of different levels of benefits or having differences in coinsurance percentages applicable to benefit levels for services provided by preferred and nonpreferred providers as otherwise authorized under the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 30 of Title 33, relating to preferred provider arrangements.
(c)
  (1) A contract executed or renewed on or after July 1, 1998, which provides for financing and delivery of health care services through a managed care plan, other than a dental plan, shall provide coverage for one annual chlamydia screening test for each female who is covered under such contract and who is not more than 29 years of age. Such coverage may be subject to such exclusions, reductions, or other limitations as to coverages, deductibles, or copayment provisions as may be approved by the Commissioner of Insurance.
  (2) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit any managed care plan contract from providing benefits greater than or more favorable to the covered females than those required by paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(d) Code Section 31-17-8 shall not apply to this Code section.
(e) This Code section shall be subject to rules and regulations which shall be promulgated by the Commissioner of Insurance regarding notice and enforcement.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 52,§ 56, eff. 7/1/2017.
