# § 31-17-7.1. Expedited partner therapy

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Expedited partner therapy" means the practice of prescribing, ordering, or dispensing antibiotic drugs to the sexual partner or partners of a patient clinically diagnosed with chlamydia or gonorrhea without physical examination of such partner or partners.
  (2) "Licensed practitioner" means a physician licensed to practice medicine in this state, an advanced practice registered nurse or physician assistant acting pursuant to delegated authority by a physician in accordance with Code Section 43-34-23 or 43-34-25 or subsection (e.1) of Code Section 43-34-103, or a registered professional nurse employed by the department or a county board of health.
(b) A licensed practitioner who diagnoses a patient to be infected with chlamydia or gonorrhea may utilize expedited partner therapy in accordance with any rules and regulations established by the department for the management of the health of such patient's sexual partner or partners.
(c) Any licensed practitioner who, reasonably and in good faith, prescribes antibiotic drugs for expedited partner therapy in accordance with this Code section and any rules and regulations established by the department shall not be subject to civil or criminal liability and shall not be deemed to have engaged in unprofessional conduct by such practitioner's licensing board.
(d) Any pharmacist licensed in this state who, reasonably and in good faith, dispenses antibiotic drugs pursuant to a prescription for expedited partner therapy in accordance with this Code section and any rules and regulations established by the department shall not be subject to civil or criminal liability and shall not be deemed to have engaged in unprofessional conduct by the State Board of Pharmacy.
(e) The department shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to implement the provisions of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 271,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2017.
