# § 47-17-71. Grant of creditable service for active members previously denied membership in fund because of race or ethnicity

(a) It is the intent of the General Assembly to provide for the grant of creditable service to any active member of the fund for each month of prior service as a peace officer rendered prior to January 1, 1976, if during such period the member was denied membership in the fund or was actively prevented from making such application because of his or her race or ethnicity.
(b) The board is authorized and directed to receive the applications of such members as would be eligible to receive creditable service under the terms and conditions as set forth in subsection (c) of this Code section. Entitlement to such creditable service shall attach upon the submission of application, subject to all provisions of this Code section relative to funding.
(c) A member wishing to establish creditable service for service performed prior to January 1, 1976, as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, must make written application to the board during the six-month period from July 1, 2006 through December 31, 2006, and:
  (1) Provide the board with such proof of prior service as the board deems necessary, which shall include, at a minimum, pay records, tax returns, W-2 statements, or a sworn statement of the employer stating that the employment records bear proof of such employment. Such statement shall be subject to a civil fine of $5,000.00 for false swearing; and
  (2) Provide the board with a sworn statement of the applicant that he or she applied for membership in the fund and was denied membership, or that he or she was actively prevented from making such application because of his or her race or ethnicity. Such statement shall be subject to a civil fine of $5,000.00 for false swearing.
(d) As soon as practicable following the last day for application, the board shall cause the actuary for the fund to determine the amount of funding necessary to grant the creditable service to all members whose applications are accepted and approved in accordance without creating any actuarial accrued liability as to the fund, in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 20 of this title, the 'Public Retirement Systems Standards Law.' A pro rata portion of one-half of such amount, determined by the number of months of creditable service requested by each person, shall be assigned as such person's employee contribution required to receive such creditable service. The board shall notify each applicant of his or her pro rata share, and each such person shall pay such amount to the board not later than March 1, 2007, or thereafter be ineligible to receive such creditable service. During the regular 2007 session, the General Assembly may appropriate funds sufficient to cover one-half of the amount determined by the actuary as necessary to grant the creditable service, together with any portion of the total required employee contribution which was not received by the board from the applicants by March 1, 2007.
(e) The creditable service provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be granted on July 1, 2007, only if the board receives the full amount determined by the actuary as necessary to implement the provisions of this Code section. Otherwise, the board shall refund all amounts received from the members as employee contributions, together with regular interest thereon, and this Code section shall thereafter have no effect.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 562,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 19,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 458,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
