# § 47-17-70. Credit for service as peace officer; credit for service in the armed forces of the United States

(a) Any nonretired member of the fund may claim a maximum of five years for service rendered as a peace officer prior to such member's joining the fund by tendering to the fund the full actuarial cost of such time as calculated by the actuary for the fund. All purchased time shall count toward vesting.
(b) A member who is determined by the board to be in good standing and who enlists in or is drafted into any branch of the armed forces of the United States shall not be required to remit any funds to the board during such period of service and shall receive credit for such service, provided that such member left their work as a peace officer to enter the armed forces of the United States and returned to work as a peace officer within six months after they ceased such service and engaged in no other type of work within such six-month period. Such member shall receive one year of creditable service for each year of service in the armed forces of the United States, provided that there shall be a limit of five years of credit for such service. If a member remains in the armed forces of the United States longer than five years, their membership shall be terminated at the end of such five-year period but shall be reinstated if they return to work as a peace officer within six months after they cease such service and if they have not engaged in any other type of work within such six-month period.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 562,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
