# § 47-17-23. Special account for funds; investment powers of board; gifts, grants, and bequests

(a) The board shall have such control of the funds provided for in this chapter as is not inconsistent with this chapter and other general laws. All funds received by the board shall be deposited in special accounts in the name of the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund. The board shall have the authority to expend such funds in accordance with this chapter.
(b) The board shall have full power to invest and reinvest such funds, subject to all the terms, conditions, limitations, and restrictions imposed by Article 7 of Chapter 20 of this title, the 'Public Retirement Systems Investment Authority Law.' Subject to such terms, conditions, limitations, and restrictions, the board shall have full power to hold, purchase, sell, assign, transfer, and dispose of any of the securities and investments in which any of the funds are invested, including the proceeds of any investments and any money belonging to the fund.
(c) The board may take, by gift, grant, devise, or bequest, any money, real or personal property, or any other thing of value and hold or invest it for the uses and purposes of the fund in accordance with this chapter.
(d) The board is authorized to employ agents, including, but not limited to, banks or trust departments thereof, and to enter into contracts with such agents for their services as investment advisers and counselors, in making recommendations for investments and in making investments if the board so authorizes.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 562,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 65, eff. 7/1/2010.
