# § 47-17-1. [See Note] Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Board of Commissioners of the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund.
(1.1) "Creditable service" means approved prior service plus membership service.
(1.2) "Full time" means regularly working a minimum of 30 hours per week or 120 hours per 28 day period for a law enforcement unit or communications center.
(2) "Fund" means the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund.
(3) "Income" means any and all income received by a peace officer for services rendered, whether such income is in the form of salary, fees, subsistence allowance or other type of allowance, or any combination thereof.
(4) "Member" means a member of the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund.
(4.1) "Membership service" means service which is rendered by an employee while he or she is a member of the fund and for which credit is allowable under this chapter.
(5) "Peace officer" means:
  (A) Any person who is employed full time by an enforcement unit or communications center, agency, or department of the state or any municipality, county, or other political subdivision thereof, recognized by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council, who is required by the terms of such person's employment to comply with the requirements of the "Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act" contained in Chapter 8 of Title 35, and who has satisfactorily completed one or more of the following basic training courses approved by the POST Council:
    (i) Law enforcement;
    (ii) Communications officer;
    (iii) Correctional officer;
    (iv) Probate/Parole officer;
    (v) Jail officer; or
    (vi) Juvenile correctional officer;
  (B) All employees of the Peace Officers Annuity and Benefit Fund who are required by the terms of their employment to devote their full time to such job; and
  (C) Any person who was a member of the fund pursuant to the definitions contained in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of this paragraph and who is subsequently promoted to a position of similar duties but broader supervisory duties, if such person's new position requires him or her to comply with the standards contained in Chapter 8 of Title 35, the "Georgia Peace Officers Standards and Training Act."

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 562,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 650,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 551,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2020.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 311,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018 .
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 562,§ 1, eff. 4/21/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 64, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 92,§ 1, eff. 4/30/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 421,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2008.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 466, § 1, eff. 4/18/2002.
