# § 47-17-81. [See Note] Eligibility for disability benefits; periodic medical examination; termination of disability benefits; application; hearings

(a) Any dues-paying member who became a member prior to July 1, 1993, who is rendered totally and permanently disabled by disease or injury so as to be unable to perform substantially all of the duties of the position to which the member was regularly assigned when the disability originated or so as to be unable to engage in any occupation or gainful employment for which the member is reasonably suited by virtue of the member's background, training, education, and experience shall be entitled to disability benefits of $455.00 per month for life or until the member's disability ceases, provided that the member makes application to the board for disability benefits within 12 months of becoming totally and permanently disabled.
(b) The disability benefits provided under this Code section shall be payable upon the event of disability as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section regardless of the cause of the disability and shall be payable when the disability is a result of any mental or physical injury or disease, whether caused by reason of the peace officer's employment or not, provided that no benefits shall be payable under this Code section for any disability resulting from the chronic and excessive consumption of alcoholic beverages, addiction to drugs, the use of which is prohibited in this state by law, engagement by the member in any criminal act, willful misconduct of the member, or injury sustained by the member while serving in the armed forces of any country or while on active duty in the National Guard or other armed forces reserve force.
(c) Any other provision of law to the contrary notwithstanding, any member who is receiving disability benefits pursuant to this Code section on June 30, 1990, and who had at least 20 years of creditable service at the time such member first became eligible for such disability benefits shall receive the same benefits as a member who retires at age 55 or older with 20 years of creditable service under the provisions of Code Section 47-17-80. For each year of creditable service above 20 years but not more than 30 years which such member had when first becoming eligible to receive disability benefits, the benefits shall be the same as those provided for the same number of years of creditable service under the provisions of Code Section 47-17-80. The benefits of such members who are receiving disability benefits pursuant to this Code section on June 30, 1990, shall be recomputed and the increased benefits shall be paid to such members beginning July 1, 1990. Any member who first becomes eligible to receive disability benefits on or after July 1, 1990, who has the required years of creditable service as provided in this subsection shall have disability benefits computed and paid in the same manner as provided in this subsection.
(d) The amount of disability benefits in this Code section shall apply to those members who have retired on disability prior to July 1, 1990, as well as to those members who retire on disability on or after that date. The creditable service of each such member who retired prior to July 1, 1990, shall be recomputed, and the benefits provided under this Code section shall be paid to such member in the future beginning July 1, 1990.
(e) Once each year during the first five years following the commencement of disability benefits under this Code section, and once in every three-year period thereafter, the board may require a disability beneficiary who has not yet attained 65 years of age to undergo a medical examination, such examination to be made at his or her place of residence, or other place mutually agreed upon, by physicians designated by the board. The disability benefits recipient may himself or herself request such an examination. The designated physicians shall report to the board, following each such examination, the current status and condition of the recipient's disability.
(f) A disabled member's disability benefits shall cease:
  (1) Upon his or her return to gainful employment with the employer for which he or she worked at the time their disability originated;
  (2) If he or she refuses to submit to any medical examination requested under this Code section, in which case the benefits shall remain discontinued until the member's withdrawal of such refusal and submission to the requested medical examination; and, if his or her refusal continues for one year, all his or her rights in and to disability benefits may be revoked by the board;
  (3) If the board determines on the basis of any medical examination that the member has sufficiently recovered from his or her disability so as to again be able to perform substantially all of the duties of the position to which he or she was regularly assigned when the disability originated, or so as to be able to engage in an occupation or gainful employment for which he or she is reasonably suited by virtue of his or her background, training, education, and experience;
  (4) If the member does in fact obtain gainful employment compensating him or her at a level equal to or greater than the current compensation for the position he or she occupied at the time his or her disability originated; or
  (5) When he or she dies.
(g) The board shall prescribe and furnish a form and procedure for the application for disability benefits. Applications shall contain such information as the board shall require. Upon the receipt of an application, the board may pass upon and decide whether to grant or deny the application on the basis of the submitted information or may refer the application to its duly appointed hearing officer for a recommendation. Any applicant for disability benefits shall have the right to request the board to refer his or her application to the hearing officer for a recommendation. In the consideration of any application for disability benefits, the receipt of disability benefits or payments by the applicant under the federal Social Security Act shall be deemed sufficient for eligibility for disability benefits under this Code section.
(h) Any other provision of this Code section to the contrary notwithstanding, no person who becomes a member or again becomes a member of this fund on or after July 1, 1993, shall be entitled to any benefit provided for in this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 562,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 681,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
