# § 47-17-60. Payments to the fund from fines and bonds collected in criminal and quasi-criminal cases; duty of collecting authority to record and remit sums collected; penalty

(a) The greater of $10.00 or 10 percent of each bond forfeited and collected in any criminal or quasi-criminal case for violation of state statutes, county ordinances, or municipal ordinances, which case is before any court or tribunal in this state, shall be paid to the executive director. An amount equal to the greater of $10.00 or 10 percent of each fine imposed in any criminal or quasi-criminal case for violation of state statutes, county ordinances, or municipal ordinances, which case is before any court or tribunal in this state, shall be added to the amount of the fine imposed and collected, and, once collected, shall be paid to the executive director. For purposes of determining amounts to be paid to the executive director, the amount of the fine or bond collected shall be deemed to include costs. The amounts provided for shall be paid to the executive director before the payment of any costs or any claim whatsoever against such fine or forfeiture. The collecting authority shall pay such amounts to the executive director on the first day of the month following that in which they were collected or at such other time as the board may provide. With such payment there shall be filed an acceptable form which shows the number of cases in each of the above categories and the amounts due in each category. It shall be the duty of the collecting authority to keep accurate records of the amounts due the board so that the records may be audited or inspected at any time by any representative of the board under its direction. Sums remitted to the executive director under this Code section shall be used as provided for elsewhere in this chapter.
(a.1) The greater of 5 percent or $5.00 of each fee collected prior to adjudication of guilt for purposes of pretrial diversion pertaining to any criminal or quasi-criminal case for violation of state statutes, county ordinances, or municipal ordinances as provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 15-18-80, which case is before any court or tribunal in this state, shall be paid to the executive director. The clerk of court as provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 15-18-80shall pay such amounts to the executive director on the first day of the month following that in which they were collected or at such other time as the board may provide. With such payment there shall be filed an acceptable form from the clerk of court which shows the number of cases in each of the above categories and the amounts due in each category. It shall be the duty of the clerk of court to keep accurate records of the amounts due the board so that the records may be audited or inspected at any time by any representative of the board under its direction. Sums remitted to the executive director under this Code section shall be used as provided for elsewhere in this chapter.
(b) If the collecting authority fails to remit such amounts with an acceptable form properly filled out within 60 days of the date on which such remittal is due, the same shall be delinquent, and there shall be imposed, in addition to the principal amount due, a specific penalty in the amount of 5 percent of the principal amount per month for each month during which the funds continue to be delinquent, provided that such penalty shall not exceed 25 percent of the principal due. In addition to such penalty, interest shall be charged on delinquent amounts at the rate of 6 percent per annum from the date the funds become delinquent until they are paid. By affirmative vote of all members, the board, upon the payment of the delinquent funds together with interest and for good cause shown, may waive the specific penalty otherwise charged under this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 562,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 551,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 257,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 463,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2018.
