# § 25-6-4. Purpose of pacts; powers and duties of pacts generally

(a) It shall be the primary purpose of a pact to coordinate the emergency fire services of all jurisdictions belonging to it, so as to provide better, more efficient, and more effective cooperation in the protection of life and property from fires or other immediate response emergencies within the area served by the pact.
(b) Any pact established under authority of this chapter is charged with the responsibility of establishing an overall plan or plans for carrying out the intended purpose and other provisions of this chapter. No pact may be established unless it complies with this chapter. Within the limits of funds available to it, the pact may acquire and operate property and equipment, including, but not limited to, a dispatch center and a communications center; and it may extend the advantages of group purchasing and benefits to jurisdictions that are members of the pact. Member jurisdictions shall adopt the training programs of the Georgia Fire Academy in order to ensure a basic standardization of operations and philosophy; this requirement shall not be construed as limiting the training practices or requirements of any jurisdiction, as it is intended that the programs of the Georgia Fire Academy be used to supplement the training practices and requirements of member jurisdictions. The pact shall cooperate with other state and federal agencies and with civil defense authorities on all levels. The state fire marshal may render advice, recommendations, and assistance to a pact, upon request. Members of a pact shall cooperate with the state fire marshal on matters relating to fire investigations and the enforcement of the arson statutes of the state.
