# § 25-6-3. Establishment, organization, and governance of pacts

(a) When two or more jurisdictions desire to establish a pact, each jurisdiction shall designate its fire chief or person or position in charge of its fire department to act for that jurisdiction on all matters relating to the activities and functions of the pact, once it has been established. The jurisdiction shall designate the person or position and its intent to be a member of a pact by a written resolution. The resolutions shall be forwarded to the state fire marshal. Upon receipt of at least two resolutions, the state fire marshal or his authorized representative shall call the first organizational meeting of the system by giving notice to all persons designated by the resolutions to act for potential member jurisdictions. Each jurisdiction shall send its designated person or his authorized representative to the organizational and subsequent meetings. Such person shall be entitled to one vote in all proceedings.
(b) At the organizational meeting, the pact members shall adopt articles of association and bylaws and regulations for the future government and operation of the pact, which shall be effective upon submission to and approval by the Attorney General, who shall cause the same to be promptly recorded by the Secretary of State. Such recording shall formally establish the pact.
(c) At the organizational meeting, the member delegates shall also elect a board of directors consisting of such members as may be determined by the organization delegates. The board of directors shall serve for one year or until their successors are elected and qualified, provided that at the organizational or any subsequent meeting the member delegates may vote for staggered terms for all members of the board of directors, the length of which shall not exceed five years or until the director's successor is elected and qualified.
(d) The directors shall choose from their number the officers of the pact, who shall have such duties and powers as the bylaws allow. Within the limits of funds available to it, the board of directors may employ and fix the compensation of such agents and other personnel as the board deems necessary to carry out the coordinating functions and other responsibilities of the system. Such personnel shall include a nontactical coordinator who shall serve at the pleasure of the board and who shall have and exercise such powers and authority as the board may delegate to him.
