# § 17-11-22. Basis for reimbursement of counties for capital felony expenses

(a) Each county which is responsible for the costs of a capital felony case will be reimbursed for capital felony expenses as provided in this Code section. With respect to one or more capital felony cases, expenses from the date of arrest will be accumulated. When one or more capital felony cases result in capital felony expenses, the accumulation of which is more than 5 percent of county revenue for the calendar year in which the superior court conviction occurs or in which the defendant is released if not convicted, the county will be reimbursed for all such accumulated capital felony expenses in excess of the 5 percent level. After a county has qualified or been reimbursed for capital felony expenses for any calendar year, the county shall be eligible for any capital felony expenses resulting from such case or cases in subsequent calendar years prior to the appeal of such case or cases. County revenues shall not be applicable in determining the amount of reimbursement for capital felony expenses occurring in such subsequent years prior to the appeal of the case or cases.
(b) If one or more capital felony cases are appealed, expenses from the date of the superior court conviction will be accumulated. When the appeal of one or more capital felony cases results in capital felony expenses, the accumulation of which is more than 5 percent of county revenue for the calendar year in which the last appellate court action on the conviction occurs, the county will be reimbursed for all such capital felony expenses in excess of the 5 percent level. If the county chooses not to seek reimbursement for capital felony expenses from the date of arrest to the date of the superior court conviction and instead seeks reimbursement for its capital felony expenses through the last appellate court action, the county will be reimbursed for all accumulated capital felony expenses in excess of the 5 percent level.
(c) If a capital felony case is appealed and the conviction is reversed, capital felony expenses for any subsequent retrial and appeals will be handled in accordance with the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section.
(d) No capital felony expenses for which reimbursement has already been made will again be included in any subsequent calculations or reimbursement requests.
