# § 40-8-78. Safety glazing

(a) No person shall sell any motor vehicle manufactured after January 1, 1954, nor shall any such motor vehicle be registered unless such vehicle is equipped with safety glazing materials of a type approved by the commissioner of public safety wherever glazing materials are used in doors, windows, and windshields. The provisions of this Code section shall apply to all passenger-type motor vehicles, including passenger buses and school buses, but in respect to trucks, including truck tractors, the requirements as to safety glazing materials shall apply to all glazing materials used in doors, windows, and windshields in the drivers' compartments of such vehicles.
(b) The term "safety glazing materials" means glazing materials so constructed, treated, or combined with other materials as to reduce substantially, in comparison with ordinary sheet glass or plate glass, the likelihood of injury to persons by objects from exterior sources or by these safety glazing materials when they may be cracked or broken.
(c) Any person engaged in the business of replacing windshields or any side or rear windows of motor vehicles, which are subject to the provisions of this Code section, shall not replace such windshields or side or rear windows with any glazing materials other than safety glazing materials approved by the commissioner.
(d) The commissioner of public safety shall compile and publish in print or electronically a list of types of glazing materials by name approved by him or her as meeting the requirements of this Code section and the commissioner shall not register any motor vehicle which is subject to the provisions of this Code section unless it is equipped with an approved type of safety glazing materials, and he or she shall thereafter suspend the registration of any motor vehicle so subject to this Code section which he or she finds is not so equipped until it is made to conform to the requirements of this Code section.
(e) This Code section shall not be construed to require that side or rear windows of motor vehicles which were replaced or installed prior to January 1, 1954, must be replaced with safety glazing materials as provided in this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 19-5, eff. 7/1/2005.
