# § 40-8-27. Light, flag, or strobe lamp on projecting load; requirements for lamp and flag

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, whenever the load upon any vehicle extends to the rear four feet or more beyond the bed or body of such vehicle, there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of the load, at the times specified in Code Section 40-8-20, a red light plainly visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the sides and rear. The red light required under this Code section shall be in addition to the red rear light required upon every vehicle. At any other time there shall be displayed at the extreme rear end of such load a flag or flags as described in subsection (c) of this Code section not less than 18 inches square and so hung that the entire area is visible to the driver of a vehicle approaching from the rear.
(b) Any motor vehicle or trailer transporting a load of logs, long pulpwood, poles, or posts which extend more than four feet beyond the rear of the body or bed of such vehicle shall have securely affixed as close as practical to the end of any such projection one amber strobe type lamp equipped with a multidirectional type lens so mounted as to be visible from the rear and both sides of the projecting load. If the mounting of one strobe lamp cannot be accomplished so that it is visible from the rear and both sides of the projecting load, multiple strobe lights shall be utilized so as to meet the visibility requirements of this subsection. The strobe lamp shall flash at a rate of at least 60 flashes per minute and shall be plainly visible from a distance of at least 500 feet to the rear and sides of the projecting load any time of the day or night. The lamp shall be operating at any time of the day or night when the vehicle is operated on any highway or parked on the shoulder or immediately adjacent to the traveled portion of any public roadway. The projecting load shall also be marked with a flag or flags as described in subsection (c) of this Code section. An emergency light permit as provided for in Code Section 40-8-92 is not required on a vehicle utilizing an amber strobe light to comply with the provisions of this Code section.
(b.1) In lieu of the strobe type lamp or lamps provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section, any motor vehicle or trailer transporting a load of logs, long pulpwood, poles, or posts which extend more than four feet beyond the rear of the body or bed of such vehicle shall have securely affixed as close as practical to the end of any such projection, one light-emitting diode (LED) light equipped with a multidirectional type lens, mounted so as to be visible from the rear and from both sides of the projecting load. If the mounting of one light-emitting diode (LED) light cannot be accomplished so that it is visible from the rear and from both sides of the projecting load, multiple light-emitting diode (LED) lights shall be utilized so as to meet the visibility requirements of this subsection. The light-emitting diode (LED) light or lights shall be amber in color, shall flash at a rate of at least 60 flashes per minute, and shall be plainly visible from a distance of at least 500 feet from the rear and sides at a radius of 180 degrees of the projecting load at any time of the day or night. Any light-emitting diode (LED) light shall be constructed of durable, weather resistant material and may be powered by the vehicle's electrical system or by an independent battery system, or both. If the light-emitting diode (LED) light is powered by an independent battery system, the driver of the vehicle shall have in his or her immediate possession charged, spare batteries for use in case of battery failure. Any solid state light-emitting diode (LED) lighting that consists of multiple light-emitting diode (LED) lights shall not have less than 85 percent of the light-emitting diode (LED) lights in operable condition. The lights shall remain in operation at any time of the day or night when the vehicle is operated on any highway or parked on the shoulder or immediately adjacent to the traveled portion of any public roadway. The projecting load shall also be marked with a flag or flags as described in subsection (c) of this Code section. An emergency light permit as provided for in Code Section 40-8-92 is not required on a vehicle utilizing a light-emitting diode (LED) light to comply with the provisions of this Code section.
(c) The flag or flags as required by subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section shall be of a bright red or orange fluorescent color not less than 18 inches square which is clearly visible and shall be displayed in such a manner that the entire area of the flag is visible from the rear of the vehicle. There shall be a single flag at the extreme rear of the projecting load if the projecting load is two feet wide or less. Two such warning flags shall be required if the projecting load is wider than two feet. Flags shall be located to indicate the maximum width of loads which extend beyond the rear of the vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 119,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 434,§ 15, eff. 1/1/2009.
