# § 40-8-6. Vehicles with altered suspension systems

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Frame" means the main longitudinal structural members of the chassis of a motor vehicle.
  (2) "Frame height" means the vertical distance between a level surface and the lowest point on the frame of a motor vehicle, measured when the vehicle is upon such level surface without a load.
  (3) "Gross vehicle weight rating" means the manufacturer's gross vehicle weight rating whether or not the vehicle is modified by use of parts not originally installed by the manufacturer.
(b) It shall be unlawful to alter the suspension system of any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of 4,500 pounds or less, which may be operated on any highway, so as to exceed 27 inches as measured from the surface of the street to the lowest point on the frame of the vehicle.
(c) It shall be unlawful to alter the suspension system of any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of not less than 4,501 pounds and not more than 7,500 pounds, which may be operated on any highway, so as to exceed 30 inches as measured from the surface of the street to the lowest point on the frame of the vehicle.
(d) It shall be unlawful to alter the suspension system of any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of not less than 7,501 pounds and not more than 14,000 pounds, which may be operated on any highway, so as to exceed 31 inches as measured from the surface of the street to the lowest point on the frame of the vehicle.
(e) It shall be unlawful to alter the suspension of any motor vehicle with a gross vehicle rating of not less than 4,000 pounds and not more than 7,000 pounds, which may be operated on any highway in a manner that results in the frame height of the front of such vehicle being more than four inches above or below the frame height of the rear of the vehicle. It shall be unlawful to operate any motor vehicle upon any highway if the springs relative to the suspension system are broken or the suspension system has been altered in excess of the limitations provided for in this Code section.
(f) This Code section shall not apply to any motor vehicle with an electronic stability control system which complies with standard number 126 of 49 C.F.R. 571.126 in effect on January 1, 2024.
(g) Any person violating this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Renumbered from § 40-8-6.1 and amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 611,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Repealed by 2024 Ga. Laws 611,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
