# § 40-8-4. Emblem or amber strobe light to be displayed on certain slow-moving vehicles or equipment operating on public roads

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to operate upon the public roads of this state any slow-moving vehicle or equipment, any farm trailer or semitrailer which is used for agricultural purposes and which would otherwise be exempt from this article as an implement of husbandry under Code Section 40-8-1, any animal drawn vehicle, or any machinery designed for use and generally operated at speeds less than 25 miles per hour, including all road construction or maintenance equipment and machinery except when engaged in actual construction or maintenance procedures and all other construction equipment and machinery, unless there is displayed on the rear thereof an emblem which shall comply with subsection (b) of this Code section or an amber strobe light operated in compliance with Code Section 40-8-35. It shall also be unlawful to operate upon the public roads of this state without such an emblem any three-wheeled motorcycle used only for agricultural purposes unless such three-wheeled motorcycle is licensed as required by Chapter 2 of this title and is in compliance with all other requirements of this chapter.
(b) The emblem required by subsection (a) of this Code section shall conform with those standards and specifications adopted for slow-moving vehicles by the American Society of Agricultural Engineers in December, 1966, and contained within such society's standard ASAE S276.1, or shall be an emblem of the same shape and size painted on such vehicle in a bright and conspicuous retroreflective red orange paint. Such emblem shall be mounted on the rear of such vehicles, in the approximate horizontal geometric center of the vehicle, at a height of three to five feet above the roadway, and shall be maintained at all times in a clean and reflective condition.
(c) Any person violating this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d) Nothing in this Code section shall apply to any self-propelled, two-wheeled vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 214,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
