# § 40-8-35. Vehicles with flashing or revolving amber lights

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term "vehicle" means a motor vehicle, trailer, load, or equipment.
(b) Any of the following shall utilize flashing or revolving amber lights when operating upon highways and during the conditions set forth:
  (1) A wrecker or tow truck or motor vehicle used for the provision of emergency road services when:
    (A) At the scene of a motor vehicle accident or disablement;
    (B) Towing a motor vehicle in a manner in which any wheel of the vehicle in tow remains in contact with the pavement; or
    (C) Operating with objects protruding from the vehicle in a manner that creates a hazard;
  (2) A utility service vehicle when such vehicle is involved in the provision of utility services as such terms are defined in Code Section 40-6-16;
  (3) A vehicle or equipment when in use for road construction or maintenance operations authorized by the Department of Transportation or a local government pursuant to Title 32 or 36;
  (4) A motor vehicle with active sanitation workers as such term is defined in Code Section 40-6-16.1;
  (5) A motor vehicle operated by a rural mail carrier when delivering mail;
  (6) A motor vehicle or trailer transporting a projecting load as set forth in subsections (b) and (b.1) of Code Section 40-8-27;
  (7) A motor vehicle or combination of vehicles and loads whose weight, width, length, or height, or combination thereof, exceeds the maximum limit specified by law, for which a permit has been issued pursuant to Code Section 32-6-28;
  (8) An extendable semitrailer or load operated pursuant to subparagraph (b)(1)(C) of Code Section 32-6-24;
  (9) An escort vehicle operated pursuant to Code Section 32-6-25.1;
  (10) A low-speed vehicle when operated without an emblem affixed in accordance with the requirements of Code Section 40-8-4;
  (11) A trailer, semitrailer, or escort vehicle when operated under the conditions set forth in Code Section 40-8-33;
  (12) A school bus when such vehicle is required to comply with the identification and equipment requirements set forth in Code Section 40-8-115;
  (13) A vehicle operated in the course of business by a person licensed or registered as a private detective business or private security business under Chapter 38 of Title 43;
  (14) A vehicle operated by a neighborhood watch program provided that such vehicle is clearly identified as in operation by such program and such program has been established in accordance with local law enforcement standards for such programs; or
  (15) The lead vehicle in a funeral procession when such vehicle complies with the requirements of Code Section 40-6-76.
(c) Any vehicle owned or leased by the federal government may utilize flashing or revolving amber lights when operating upon highways provided that such vehicle is being operated for an authorized federal purpose.
(d) Equipment capable of producing flashing or revolving amber lights shall be mounted upon a vehicle in a manner so as to be visible under normal atmospheric conditions from a distance of 500 feet from the front and rear of the vehicle.
(e) Unless authorized by this Code section or Code Section 40-6-6, 40-8-91, or 40-8-92, it shall be unlawful to operate any vehicle with flashing or revolving amber lights on a highway.
(f) A violation of this Code section shall be punished as a misdemeanor; provided, however, that a violation of this Code section during the commission of a felony shall be punished as a felony.
(g) Nothing in this Code section shall prohibit the use of blinking or flashing parking or brake lights or directional signals on a motor vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 510,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 755,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 214,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2021.
