# § 16-8-22. Cargo theft

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term "vehicle" includes, without limitation, any railcar.
(b) Notwithstanding any provision of this article to the contrary, a person commits the offense of cargo theft when he or she unlawfully takes or, being in lawful possession thereof, unlawfully appropriates:
  (1) Any vehicle engaged in commercial transportation of cargo or any appurtenance thereto, including, without limitation, any trailer, semitrailer, container, or other associated equipment, or the cargo being transported therein or thereon, which is the property of another with the intention of depriving such other person of the property, regardless of the manner in which the property is taken or appropriated; or
  (2) Any trailer, semitrailer, container, or other associated equipment, or the cargo being transported therein or thereon, which is deployed by or used by a law enforcement agency, which is the property of another with the intention of depriving such other person of the property, regardless of the manner in which the property is taken or appropriated.
(c) The value of a vehicle engaged in commercial transportation of cargo and any appurtenance thereto and the cargo being transported which is taken or unlawfully appropriated shall be based on the fair market value of such vehicle, appurtenances, and cargo taken or unlawfully appropriated.
(d)
  (1) If the property taken is one or more controlled substances as defined in Code Section 16-13-21 with a collective value of less than $10,000.00, a person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years, a fine of not less than $10,000.00 nor more than $100,000.00, or both.
  (2) If the property taken is one or more controlled substances as defined in Code Section 16-13-21 with a collective value of at least $10,000.00 but less than $1 million, a person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than five nor more than 25 years, a fine of not less than $50,000.00 nor more than $1 million, or both.
  (3) If the property taken is one or more controlled substances as defined in Code Section 16-13-21 with a collective value of $1 million or more, a person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than ten nor more than 30 years, a fine of not less than $100,000.00 nor more than $1 million, or both.
(e)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, if the property taken has a collective value of $1,500.00 or less, a person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.
  (2) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, if the property taken has a collective value of more than $1,500.00 but less than $10,000.00, a person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years, a fine of not less than $10,000.00 nor more than $100,000.00, or both.
  (3) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, if the property taken has a collective value of at least $10,000.00 but less than $1 million, a person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than five nor more than 20 years, a fine of not less than $50,000.00 nor more than $1 million, or both.
  (4) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, if the property taken has a collective value of $1 million or more, a person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than ten nor more than 20 years, a fine of not less than $100,000.00 nor more than $1 million, or both.
(f) Notwithstanding subsections (d) and (e) of this Code section, if the property taken is a trailer, semitrailer, container, or other associated equipment, or the cargo being transported therein or thereon, which is deployed by or used by a law enforcement agency, regardless of its value, a person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years, a fine of not less than $10,000.00 nor more than $100,000.00, or both.
(g) A person convicted of a violation of this Code section may also be punished by, if applicable, the revocation of the defendant's commercial driver's license in accordance with Code Section 40-5-151.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 507,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
See 2014 Ga. Laws 507, § 3.
