# § 16-8-17. Misuse of Universal Product Code labels

(a)
  (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a person who, with intent to cheat or defraud a retailer, possesses, uses, utters, transfers, makes, alters, counterfeits, or reproduces a retail sales receipt or a Universal Product Code label which results in a theft of property which exceeds $500.00 in value commits a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than three years or by a fine or both.
  (2) A person convicted of a violation of paragraph (1) of this subsection, when the property which was the subject of the theft resulting from the unlawful use of retail sales receipts or Universal Product Code labels is taken from three separate stores or retail establishments within one county during a period of seven days or less and when the aggregate value of the property which was the subject of each theft exceeds $500.00 in value, commits a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years.
(b) A person who, with intent to cheat or defraud a retailer, possesses 15 or more fraudulent retail sales receipts or Universal Product Code labels or possesses a device the purpose of which is to manufacture fraudulent retail sales receipts or Universal Product Code labels shall be guilty of a felony and punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 709,§ III-3-4, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 16, eff. 2/12/2001.
