# § 16-8-12. Penalties for theft in violation of Code Sections 16-8-2 through 16-8-9

(a) A person convicted of a violation of Code Sections 16-8-2 through 16-8-9 shall be punished as for a misdemeanor except:
  (1)
    (A) If the property which was the subject of the theft exceeded $24,999.99 in value, by imprisonment for not less than two nor more than 20 years;
    (B) If the property which was the subject of the theft was at least $5,000.00 in value but was less than $25,000.00 in value, by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years and, in the discretion of the trial judge, as for a misdemeanor;
    (C) If the property which was the subject of the theft was at least $1,500.01 in value but was less than $5,000.00 in value, by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years and, in the discretion of the trial judge, as for a misdemeanor; and
    (D) If the defendant has two prior convictions for a violation of Code Sections 16-8-2 through 16-8-9, upon a third conviction or subsequent conviction, such defendant shall be guilty of a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years and, in the discretion of the trial judge, as for a misdemeanor;
  (2) If the property was any amount of anhydrous ammonia, as defined in Code Section 16-11-111, by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years, a fine not to exceed the amount provided by Code Section 17-10-8, or both;
  (3) If the property was taken by a fiduciary in breach of a fiduciary obligation or by an officer or employee of a government or a financial institution in breach of his or her duties as such officer or employee, by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than 15 years, a fine not to exceed the amount provided by Code Section 17-10-8, or both;
  (4) If the crime committed was a violation of Code Section 16-8-2 and if the property which was the subject of the theft was a memorial to the dead or any ornamentation, flower, tree, or shrub placed on, adjacent to, or within any enclosure of a memorial to the dead, by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than three years. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as to cause action taken by a cemetery, cemetery owner, lessee, trustee, church, religious or fraternal organization, corporation, civic organization, or club legitimately attempting to clean, maintain, care for, upgrade, or beautify a grave, gravesite, tomb, monument, gravestone, or other structure or thing placed or designed for a memorial of the dead to be a criminal act;
  (5)
    (A) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection notwithstanding, if the theft or unlawful activity was committed in violation of subsection (b) of Code Section 10-1-393.5 or in violation of subsection (b) of Code Section 10-1-393.6 or while engaged in telemarketing conduct in violation of Chapter 5B of Title 10, by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than ten years or, in the discretion of the trial judge, as for a misdemeanor; provided, however, that any person who is convicted of a second or subsequent offense under this paragraph shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than 20 years.
    (B) Subsequent offenses committed under this paragraph, including those which may have been committed after prior felony convictions unrelated to this paragraph, shall be punished as provided in Code Section 17-10-7;
  (6)
    (A) As used in this paragraph, the term:
      (i) "Destructive device" means a destructive device as such term is defined by Code Section 16-7-80.
      (ii) "Explosive" means an explosive as such term is defined by Code Section 16-7-80.
      (iii) "Firearm" means any rifle, shotgun, pistol, or similar device which propels a projectile or projectiles through the energy of an explosive.
    (B) If the property which was the subject of the theft offense was a destructive device, explosive, or firearm, by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than ten years; provided, however, that upon a second or subsequent conviction, by imprisonment for not less than five nor more than ten years;
  (7) If the property which was the subject of the theft is a grave marker, monument, or memorial to one or more deceased persons who served in the military service of this state, the United States of America or any of the states thereof, or the Confederate States of America or any of the states thereof, or a monument, plaque, marker, or memorial which is dedicated to, honors, or recounts the military service of any past or present military personnel of this state, the United States of America or any of the states thereof, or the Confederate States of America or any of the states thereof, and if such grave marker, monument, memorial, plaque, or marker is privately owned or located on privately owned land, by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than three years if the value of the property which was the subject of the theft is $1,000.00 or less, and by imprisonment for not less than three years and not more than five years if the value of the property which was the subject of the theft is more than $1,000.00;
  (8) Reserved; or
  (9) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection, if the property of the theft was regulated metal property, as such term is defined in Code Section 10-1-350, and the sum of the aggregate amount of such property, in its original and undamaged condition, plus any reasonable costs which are or would be incurred in the repair or the attempt to recover any property damaged in the theft or removal of such regulated metal property, exceeds $500.00, by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than five years, a fine of not more than $5,000.00, or both.
(b) Reserved.
(c) Where a violation of Code Sections 16-8-2 through 16-8-9 involves the theft of a growing or otherwise unharvested commercial agricultural product which is being grown or produced as a crop, such offense shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1,000.00 and not more than the maximum fine otherwise authorized by law. This minimum fine shall not in any such case be subject to suspension, stay, or probation. This minimum fine shall not be required in any case in which a sentence of confinement is imposed and such sentence of confinement is not suspended, stayed, or probated; but this subsection shall not prohibit imposition of any otherwise authorized fine in such a case.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 190,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 416,§ 4-1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 507,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 709,§ III-3-2, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 590,§ I-1-2, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 150,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 345,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 545,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 793, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 29, § 1, eff. 5/15/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 353, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
