# § 16-8-62. Film piracy prohibited; exceptions; penalty for violation

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Audiovisual recording device" means any device capable of recording or transmitting a motion picture, or any part thereof, using any technology now known or later developed.
  (2) "Facility" shall not include a personal residence.
(b) Any person who knowingly operates the recording function of an audiovisual recording device while a motion picture is being exhibited, without the consent of the owner, operator, or lessee of the exhibition facility and of the licensor of the motion picture being exhibited, shall be guilty of film piracy.
(c) The provisions of this Code section shall not be construed to prevent any lawfully authorized investigative, law enforcement, or intelligence personnel of the state or federal government from operating any audiovisual recording device in a facility where a motion picture is being exhibited as part of their official duties or activities.
(d) This Code section is not applicable to a person who operates an audiovisual recording device in a retail establishment solely to demonstrate the use of the device for sales purposes.
(e) A prosecution under this Code section shall not preclude obtaining any other civil or criminal remedy under any other provision of law.
(f) Violation of this Code section is a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature and punishable upon conviction as provided in Code Section 17-10-4. A second or subsequent conviction for violation of this Code section shall be punishable as a felony.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 663, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
