# § 16-8-14.2. Organized retail theft

(a) A person commits the offense of organized retail theft when such person intentionally organizes, plans, finances, directs, manages, or supervises one or more other persons to appropriate property of a store or retail establishment to his or her own use without paying for such property or to deprive the owner of the property of the value thereof, in whole or in part, and when such property is taken from one or more stores or retail establishments over a period of 180 days with the intent to sell such property for monetary or other gain and when the aggregate value of the property which was the subject of the theft has a value exceeding $24,999.99 and is placed or is to be placed in the control of a retail property fence as defined in Code Section 16-8-5.2 or other person in exchange for consideration.
(b) In all cases involving organized retail theft, the term "value" means the actual retail price of the property at the time and place of the offense. The unaltered price tag or other marking on property, or duly identified photographs thereof, shall be prima-facie evidence of value and ownership of the property.
(c) In any criminal proceeding pursuant to this Code section, the crime shall be considered to have been committed in any county in which an incident of organized retail theft occurred.
(d) A person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be guilty of a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than three nor more than 20 years, a fine not to exceed $50,000.00, or both.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 163,§ 3-4, eff. 7/1/2021.
