# § 50-25-7.10. Annual state information technology report; requirements; standards

(a) The executive director shall publish in print or electronically an annual state information technology report that shall include:
  (1) A report on the state's current and planned information technology expenditures, in cooperation with the Office of Planning and Budget and the state accounting officer, that shall include, but not be limited to, line-item detail expenditures on systems development, personal services, and equipment from the previous fiscal year and anticipated expenditures for the upcoming fiscal year;
  (2) A prioritization of information technology initiatives to address unmet needs and opportunities for significant efficiencies or improved effectiveness within the state information technology enterprise; and
  (3) A prioritized funding schedule for all major projects or initiatives, as well as cost estimates of the fiscal impact of the recommended information technology initiatives. The state information technology report shall be submitted to the Governor, the General Assembly, and the board on or before October 1 of each year. The authority may adopt an accrual method of accounting. The authority shall not be required to distribute copies of the annual report to members of the General Assembly, but shall notify the members of the availability of the report in the manner in which it deems to be the most effective and efficient.
(b) Agencies shall be required to submit information technology reports to the authority not more than twice annually and with such content as the board shall define. The authority shall establish standards for agencies to submit the reports or updates. Standards shall include, without limitation, content, format, and frequency of updates.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 46,§ 3, eff. 4/21/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 333,§ 47, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 140,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2005.
