# § 50-25-2. Membership

(a) The authority shall consist of 11 members as follows: two members appointed by the Lieutenant Governor; two members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and seven members appointed by the Governor. The Governor shall designate a member of the authority to serve as chairperson of the authority. All of the aforesaid members shall be individuals employed in the private sector who shall have experience in technology issues concerning large public or private organizations or entities. The initial membership of the authority shall be appointed for terms of office as follows:
  (1) The Lieutenant Governor shall appoint one member for a term of one year and one member for a term of three years;
  (2) The Speaker of the House shall appoint one member for a term of one year and one member for a term of three years; and
  (3) The Governor shall appoint four members for terms of one year and three members for a term of three years. The terms of all succeeding members shall be for three years. The authority may elect a vice chairperson and a secretary and any other officers deemed appropriate. In addition to all other members provided for in this subsection, there shall be one nonvoting ex officio member of the authority who shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court.
(b) Each member of the authority may be authorized by the authority to receive an expense allowance and reimbursement from funds of the authority in the same manner as provided for in Code Section 45-7-21. Except as specifically provided in this subsection, members of the authority shall receive no compensation for their services.
(c) Seven members of the authority shall constitute a quorum; and the affirmative votes of six members of the authority shall be required for any action to be taken by the authority.
(d) There shall be an executive director of the authority to be titled the chief information officer and to be selected in the manner and to have the powers and duties set forth in Code Section 50-25-5.1.
(e) The authority may make rules and regulations for its own government.
(f) The authority shall have perpetual existence.
