# § 50-25-7.7. Conflicts of interest; violations; penalties

(a) Neither the executive director nor any employee of the authority shall be financially interested or have a personal beneficial interest in an amount greater than 1 percent ownership interest in any firm, corporation, partnership, or association which is involved either directly or indirectly in the purchase of or contract for any materials, equipment, or supplies, or an ownership interest greater than 1 percent in any such firm, corporation, partnership, or association furnishing any such supplies, materials, or equipment to agencies or the authority. Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, it shall be unlawful for the executive director or any of his or her assistants or any employee of the authority to accept or receive, directly or indirectly, from any person, firm, or corporation to whom any contract may be awarded any money or anything of more than nominal value or any promise, obligation, or contract for future reward or compensation.
(b) Nothing in this Code section shall preclude the executive director or any of his assistants or any employee of the authority from attending seminars, courses, lectures, briefings, or similar functions at any manufacturer's or vendor's facility or at any other place if any such seminar, course, lecture, briefing, or similar function is for the purpose of furnishing the executive director, assistant, or employee with knowledge and information relative to the manufacturer's or vendor's products or services and is one which the executive secretary to the Governor determines would be of benefit to the authority and to the state. In connection with any such seminar, course, lecture, briefing, or similar function, nothing in this Code section shall preclude the executive director, assistant, or employee from receiving meals from a manufacturer or vendor. Nothing in this Code section shall preclude the executive director, assistant, or employee from receiving educational materials and business related items of not more than nominal value from a manufacturer or vendor.
(c) Nothing contained in this Code section shall permit the executive director, assistant, or employee to accept free travel from the manufacturer or vendor outside the State of Georgia or free lodging in or out of the State of Georgia.
(d) Any person who violates subsection (a) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be removed from office.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 31,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2007.
