# § 50-25-6. Georgia Register

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Agency" means:
    (A) The Governor in the exercise of all executive powers;
    (B) Each other state officer, department, departmental unit, board, bureau, or commission expressly authorized by law to make rules and regulations; and
    (C) The General Assembly.
  (2) "Meeting" means an open and public meeting of an agency to which Chapter 14 of this title applies but shall not include a special meeting called on less than 24 hours' notice.
  (3) "Period" means the time since the closing date of the previous issue of the Georgia Register.
(b) The authority shall electronically publish or cause to be published a publication entitled the Georgia Register which shall include information made available by the agencies through electronic media related to:
  (1) Notice of adoption of all rules filed during the period;
  (2) A summary of each rule proposed during the period and a statement of the manner in which a copy of the complete text of the rule may be obtained;
  (3) The complete text of all rules adopted during the period;
  (4) All agency meeting notices showing the time, place, and date of the meeting, and the text of rules proposed for consideration or a reference where the text of the proposed rules is published, including a statement of the manner in which a copy of the agenda may be obtained;
  (5) All executive orders or proclamations issued by the Governor;
  (6) A summary of all state contracts or requests for proposals of an amount more than $100,000.00 and a statement of the manner in which a copy of the complete contract or request for proposal may be obtained;
  (7) All official and unofficial Attorney General opinions and a summary of each opinion;
  (8) The full text of agency emergency rules;
  (9) Notice of land acquisitions or transfers with a value of more than $50,000.00, including a statement of the manner in which more detailed information may be obtained;
  (10) For each session of the General Assembly:
    (A) An abstract of each bill that is introduced;
    (B) A synopsis of each bill that is enacted; and
    (C) The status of each bill;
  (11) The hearing calendar of the Supreme Court; and
  (12) The hearing calendar of the Court of Appeals.
(c) No state appropriated funds shall be used for any purpose stated in this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 472,§ 1, eff. 4/18/2006.
