# § 50-25-1. Establishment of Georgia Technology Authority

(a) There is established the Georgia Technology Authority as a body corporate and politic, an instrumentality of the state, and a public corporation; and by that name the authority may contract and be contracted with and bring and defend actions. The Georgia Technology Authority shall be the successor in interest to the public corporation created by Ga. L. 1990, p. 1566, as amended from time to time thereafter, and known as the "GeorgiaNet Authority," and all rights, powers, and duties of that public corporation shall be vested in the Georgia Technology Authority, subject, however, to all debts, obligations, liabilities, and duties incurred by that public corporation.
(b) As used in this chapter, the term:
  (1) "Agency" means every state department, agency, board, bureau, commission, and authority but shall not include any agency within the judicial or legislative branch of state government, the Georgia Department of Defense, departments headed by elected constitutional officers of the state, or the University System of Georgia and shall also not include any authority statutorily required to effectuate the provisions of Part 4 of Article 9 of Title 11.
  (2) "Authority" means the Georgia Technology Authority as established in this chapter.
  (3) "Board" means the board of directors for the Georgia Technology Authority.
  (4) "Chairperson" means the chairperson of the Georgia Technology Authority.
  (5) "Chief information officer" means the chief information officer of the State of Georgia provided for by Code Section 50-25-5.1.
  (6) "File" means a group of data consisting of a collection of related records which concern one or more functions of an agency and which is treated as a single unit in an electronic data processing system.
  (7) "GeorgiaNet Division" means the former GeorgiaNet Authority.
  (8) "Local government" means any county, city, or consolidated government in this state.
  (9) "Private sector" means any nongovernment, privately owned entity in this state.
  (10) "Public safety radio services" means all radio services of state, county, or municipal governments, as defined in Part 89 of the Rules and Regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
  (11) "Record" means a group of related fields of data used to electronically store data about a subject, such as an employee, customer, vendor, or other entity, or a transaction.
  (12) "Technology" or "technology resources" means hardware, software, and communications equipment, including, but not limited to, personal computers, mainframes, wide and local area networks, servers, mobile or portable computers, peripheral equipment, telephones, wireless communications, public safety radio services, facsimile machines, technology facilities including, but not limited to, data centers, dedicated training facilities, and switching facilities, and other relevant hardware and software items as well as personnel tasked with the planning, implementation, and support of technology.
  (13) "Technology enterprise management" means methods for managing technology resources for all agencies, considering the priorities of state planners, with an emphasis on making communications and sharing of data among agencies feasible and ensuring opportunities of greater access to state services by the public.
  (14) "Technology policy" means processes, methods, and procedures for managing technology, technology resources, and technology procurement.
  (15) "Technology portfolio management" means an approach for analyzing and ranking potential technology investments based upon state priorities and a cost benefit analysis to include, but not be limited to, calculated savings, direct and indirect, and revenue generation related to technology expenditures and selecting the most cost-effective investments. The minimization of total ownership costs, i.e., purchase, operation, maintenance, and disposal, of technology resources from acquisition through retirement while maximizing benefits is to be emphasized.
(c) The purpose of the authority shall be to provide for technology enterprise management and technology portfolio management as defined in this chapter, as well as the centralized marketing, provision, sale, and leasing, or execution of license agreements for access online or in volume, of certain public information maintained in electronic format to the public, on such terms and conditions as may be determined to be in the best interest of the state in light of the following factors:
  (1) The public interest in providing ready access to public state information for individuals, businesses, and other entities;
  (2) The public interest in providing ready access to state information for other governmental entities, so as to enhance the ability of such other governmental entities to carry out their public purposes;
  (3) Fair and adequate compensation to the state for costs incurred in generating, maintaining, and providing access to state information;
  (4) Cost savings to the state through efficiency in the provision of public information; and
  (5) Such other factors as are in the public interest of the state and will promote the public health and welfare.
(d) The authority shall assist political subdivisions and other entities created by the Constitution or laws of this state, or by local governments, by setting forth policy initiatives for guidance in the use of technology to improve services, reduce costs, encourage technological compatibility, and promote economic development throughout the state.
(e) Services related to the marketing, provision, sale, and leasing or licensing of public information as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section shall continue to be marketed under the service mark of GeorgiaNet.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 562,§ 50, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 187,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 22,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 50, eff. 4/18/2002.
