# § 12-9-55. Prohibited acts; registration of vehicle by county without proof of inspection; penalty; withholding of funding

(a)
  (1) No person shall in any manner represent any place or establishment as an official emission inspection station unless such station has been issued a valid certificate of authorization by the department.
  (2) No person shall issue a certificate of emission inspection for any responsible motor vehicle unless such person holds a valid certificate of authorization issued pursuant to this article and such vehicle has been inspected and approved by a licensed mechanic inspector as required by this article.
(b)
  (1) No person shall make, issue, or knowingly use any imitation or counterfeit of an official certificate of emission inspection.
  (2) No person shall possess, display, or cause or permit to be displayed upon any vehicle any emission inspection sticker knowing the same to be counterfeit or issued for another vehicle or issued without the required inspection and approval.
  (3) No person shall use for the purpose of proof under subsection (d) of Code Section 12-9-48 any receipt or document purporting to show cost of repair or maintenance or replacement of equipment unless such receipt or document accurately represents costs actually incurred by such person with respect to the responsible motor vehicle for which the certificate of emissions is sought.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or permit to be operated on any highway of this state a responsible motor vehicle registered in any county subject to this article pursuant to or subject to the requirements of Chapter 2 of Title 40, which is at the time of operation required to have a certificate of emission inspection under Code Section 12-9-45, without a valid certificate of emission inspection and emission inspection sticker, if required. If the owner of any motor vehicle who has been notified of the requirement of an emission inspection pursuant to paragraph (7) of subsection (a) of Code Section 12-9-47 fails to have the vehicle inspected within 30 days after receipt of such notice, such vehicle shall be in violation of this article and any certificate of emission inspection and any emission inspection sticker previously issued for such vehicle shall be deemed invalid. For purposes of this subsection, each day of operation or permission is a separate offense.
(d) It shall be unlawful to register, or cause to be registered, a responsible motor vehicle in any county other than the county wherein such vehicle is required to be registered by Chapter 2 of Title 40 for the purpose of avoiding any requirement of this article. Each day of continued unlawful registration shall be a separate offense.
(e) With respect to any responsible motor vehicle subject to any requirement under this article, it shall be unlawful for the purpose of avoiding any requirement of this article to render unserviceable by removal, alteration, lack of maintenance, or other interference with its operation any emission control equipment or on-board diagnostic equipment required on such responsible motor vehicle when such vehicle was new by the federal Clean Air Act and required by the regulations of the board promulgated pursuant to this article to be inspected and maintained. Each day of such unserviceability shall be a separate offense.
(f) Any person violating any provision of this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $50.00 nor more than $1,000.00.
(g) Any person violating any provision of this article, or rules or regulations under this article, or refusing to comply with any final order issued under this article shall be liable for a civil penalty of not more than $5,000.00 per day; provided, however, that in no instance shall any person be both liable for a civil penalty under this subsection and subjected to a criminal prosecution pursuant to subsection (f) of this Code section. Upon a showing that a civil proceeding has been commenced to assess a civil penalty, a court to which a criminal citation for a violation of subsection (f) of this Code section has been presented shall stay the criminal proceeding until the civil penalty proceeding has been completed. If a civil penalty is assessed, the criminal proceeding shall be dismissed.
(h) It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision of this article or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to this article.
(i) If it is determined that any county has registered responsible motor vehicles without receiving proof from the owners that the responsible motor vehicles satisfy all applicable requirements of Code Sections 12-9-45 and 12-9-48, the director shall notify the commissioner of transportation that such an unlawful act has occurred. Upon such notification, the State Transportation Board may at its discretion withhold Department of Transportation funding assistance from any such county.
