# § 12-9-15. Hearing; judicial review

(a)
  (1) Any person who is aggrieved or adversely affected by any order or action of the director pursuant to this article shall, upon petition within 30 days after the issuance of such order or the taking of such action, have a right to a hearing before an administrative law judge appointed by the Board of Natural Resources. The hearing before the administrative law judge shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." The decision of the administrative law judge shall constitute the final decision of the board. Any party to the hearing, including the director, shall have the right of judicial review thereof in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50. Such action shall be filed in the Superior Court of Fulton County or in the superior court of the county of residence of the petitioner.
  (2) The provisions of subparagraph (c)(2)(B) of Code Section 12-2-2 shall apply to proceedings under this Code section.
(b) Persons are aggrieved or adversely affected where the challenged action has caused or will cause them injury in fact or where the injury is to an interest within the zone of interests to be protected or regulated by the director pursuant to this article. A person shall also be considered aggrieved or adversely affected solely for purposes of administrative and judicial review pursuant to this article if he actively participated in the public hearing and comment process and the director decided the matter adverse to his interest. A continuous and substantial involvement in the review process, including attendance at public hearings and submission in writing of specific objections to the permit as proposed and specific suggested permit conditions or limitations which the person believes are required to implement the provisions of this article, shall constitute active participation. In the event the director asserts in response to the petition before the administrative law judge that the petitioner is not aggrieved or adversely affected, the administrative law judge shall take evidence and hear arguments on this issue and thereafter make a ruling on this issue before continuing with the hearing. The burden of going forward with evidence on this issue shall rest with the petitioner. The hearing and review procedure provided in this Code section is to the exclusion of all other means of hearing or review.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 156,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
