# § 32-5-41. Creation; purpose; funding

(a) There is created the Georgia Freight 2050 Program which shall be administered by the department to enhance the state's investment in the state-wide transportation freight network. The Georgia Freight 2050 Program shall fund and support projects and programs included in the freight plans identified in Code Section 32-2-41.4, including, but not limited to, system safety improvements, operation and maintenance of the transportation system, intermodal or multimodal connectivity improvements, and capacity enhancement projects.
(b) The Georgia Freight 2050 Program shall prioritize capacity enhancement projects, including, but not limited to, the following:
  (1) Widening of interstates;
  (2) Widening of noninterstate arterial roads;
  (3) Interchange, intersection, and other operational improvements;
  (4) Intermodal or multimodal capacity enhancements;
  (5) Railroad crossing access and safety improvements;
  (6) Commercial motor vehicle parking and safety improvements;
  (7) Projects located in an international ocean trade zone, an inland port zone, or a commercial and industrial impact zone as described in subsection (d) of Code Section 32-2-41.4; and
  (8) Projects of significant economic impact.
(c) The Georgia Freight 2050 Program shall utilize federal funds authorized under 23 U.S.C. Section 167 and any state funds appropriated for the purpose of matching such federal funds.
(d) It is the intent of the General Assembly that moneys collected from the use of and impact on the state-wide transportation network be appropriated to the Georgia Freight 2050 Program.
(e) The provisions of this Code section shall be subject to appropriation by the General Assembly.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 579,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
