# § 32-5-27.1. Ten-Year Strategic Plan

(a) In addition to the requirements contained in Code Section 32-5-27, the department shall annually prepare and submit to the General Assembly, for approval by the Senate Transportation Committee and the House Committee on Transportation, a ten-year strategic plan that outlines the use of department resources for the upcoming fiscal years.
(b) The Senate Transportation Committee and the House Committee on Transportation shall approve the plan and may make recommendations to the Senate Appropriations Committee and the House Committee on Appropriations for their consideration in developing the budget.
(c) Such plan shall identify at least the following categories and establish a target percentage of resources to be expended and the respective fund sources in each of the following areas:
  (1) Construction of new highway projects;
  (2) Maintenance of existing infrastructure;
  (3) Bridge repairs and replacement;
  (4) Safety enhancements; and
  (5) Administrative expenses.
(d) Priority shall be given to expenditure of available resources for maintenance, expansion, and improvement of highway infrastructure in the areas of this state most impacted by traffic congestion and to areas of this state in need of highway infrastructure to aid in attracting economic development to the area.
(e) Such plan shall also bring forward all efficiencies found within the bureaucracy of the department and how those funds have been redirected to road construction.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 46,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
