# § 43-22A-12. Licensing authority of Secretary; investigations; fines

(a) The Secretary may revoke, suspend, deny, or refuse to issue or renew a license; place a licensee on probation; or issue a letter of admonition upon proof that the licensee or applicant:
  (1) Has procured or attempted to procure a license by fraud, deceit, misrepresentation, misleading omission, or material misstatement of fact;
  (2) Has been convicted of a felony or of any crime involving moral turpitude as provided under state law;
  (3) Has willfully or negligently acted in a manner inconsistent with the health or safety of persons under such licensee's care;
  (4) Has had a license to practice a business or profession suspended or revoked or has otherwise been subject to discipline related to such licensee's practice of a business or profession in any other jurisdiction;
  (5) Has committed a fraudulent act that materially affects the fitness of the licensee or applicant to practice a business or profession;
  (6) Excessively or habitually uses alcohol or drugs, provided that the Secretary shall not discipline a licensee under this paragraph if such licensee is enrolled in a substance abuse program approved by the office; or
  (7) Has a physical or mental disability that renders such licensee incapable of safely administering lactation care and services.
(b) The Secretary is authorized to conduct investigations into allegations of conduct described in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) In addition to revoking, suspending, denying, or refusing to renew a license, the Secretary may fine a licensee found to have violated any provision of this chapter or any rule adopted by the Secretary under this chapter not less than $100.00 nor more than $500.00 for each violation.
(d) The provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," shall be applicable to the Secretary and the provisions of this chapter.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 429,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
