# § 29-10-4. Registration with the probate court; registration lists

(a) An individual who meets the requirements of Code Section 29-10-3 may be registered as a public guardian in the probate court of the county in which he or she is domiciled upon approval by the probate court. Such individual may also be registered in the probate court of other counties within a reasonable distance of the county in which he or she is domiciled as approved by such other probate courts.
(b) A private entity that meets the requirements of Code Section 29-10-3 may be registered as a public guardian in the probate court of any county upon approval by such probate court.
(c) The probate court of a county shall have the sole discretion regarding the approval and registration of public guardians. Each probate court shall maintain a list of public guardians who have been registered and approved in its county. The Division of Aging Services of the Department of Human Services shall maintain a master list of registered public guardians throughout the state; and the probate courts shall submit, on January 1 and July 1 of each year or more often as required by the division, the list of registered public guardians in each county to the Division of Aging Services.
(d) The Division of Aging Services of the Department of Human Services shall develop a standard form that may be used by probate courts in registering public guardians.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 91, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
