# § 29-10-7. Record keeping and reporting; required visits to ward; limitations on number of wards; cooperation with county guardians and conservators

(a) A public guardian shall keep and maintain proper financial, case control, and statistical records on all matters in which the public guardian serves as guardian.
(b) No report or disclosure of the ward's personal or medical records shall be made except as required or authorized by law.
(c) A public guardian shall file an annual report with the probate court on the operations of the public guardian for the preceding year, in writing, by August 1.
(d) Within six months of appointment as a public guardian, such public guardian shall submit to the probate court for placement in the ward's guardianship file a report on the public guardian's efforts to locate a family member or friend or other individual included in subsection (b) of Code Section 29-4-3 to act as the guardian of the ward and a report on the ward's potential to be restored to capacity.
(e) The public guardian or employee or agent of a public guardian, if a private entity, shall visit the ward at least four times per year and more often as necessary.
(f) A public guardian who is an individual shall serve no more than five wards at any one time. A public guardian that is an entity shall serve no more than 30 wards at any one time. In the discretion of the probate court, these maximum ratios may be increased or decreased for a particular public guardian, in light of all relevant circumstances.
(g) Public guardians, county guardians, and conservators shall be required to work cooperatively together when appointed for the same ward.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 91, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
