# § 33-30A-1. Definitions

(1) "Agent" shall be defined as provided in Code Section 33-23-1.
(2) "Carrier" means any entity that provides health insurance to employers in this state. For the purposes of this chapter, carrier includes an insurance company, hospital or medical service corporation, health care plan as defined in Code Section 33-20-3, fraternal benefit society, health maintenance organization, or any other licensed entity providing a plan of health insurance or health benefits subject to state insurance regulation.
(3) "Health benefit plan" means any hospital or medical insurance policy or certificate, health care plan contract or certificate, qualified higher deductible health plan, or health maintenance organization subscriber contract. Health benefit plan does not include policies issued in accordance with Chapter 31 of this title; disability income policies; policies issued in accordance with Code Section 34-9-14 or 34-9-122.1; limited accident and sickness insurance policies such as credit, dental, vision, medicare supplement, long-term care, hospital indemnity, or specified disease insurance; coverage issued as a supplement to liability insurance; workers' compensation or similar insurance; or automobile medical payment insurance.
(4) "Health plan purchasing cooperative," "purchasing cooperative," or "cooperative" means a nonprofit corporation authorized by the Commissioner pursuant to this chapter and operated for the benefit of members located within a particular geographic area of the state by providing members with purchasing services and detailed information on comparative prices, usage, medical outcomes, quality, and enrollee satisfaction through selected health benefit plans. For purposes of Chapter 30 of this title, a health plan purchasing cooperative shall be considered as a true group and not as an association.
(5) "Medical outcome" means a change in an individual's health status after the provision of health services.
(6) "Premium" means all moneys paid by an employer and eligible employees as a condition of receiving coverage from a carrier, including any fees or other contributions associated with the health benefit plan. Premiums shall not include fees for membership in the cooperative.
(7) "Small employer" means any person, firm, corporation, partnership, association, political subdivision, or sole proprietor that is actively engaged in a business that, at the time of application, on at least 50 percent of its working days during the preceding calendar quarter, employed no fewer than two and no more than 50 eligible employees, in which a bona fide employer-employee relationship exists. In determining the number of eligible employees, companies that are affiliated companies or companies that are eligible to file a combined tax return for purposes of state taxation shall be considered one employer. Subsequent to the issuance of a health benefit plan to a small employer and for the purpose of determining eligibility, the size of a small employer shall be determined annually. Except as otherwise provided, provisions of this chapter that apply to a small employer shall continue to apply at least until the plan anniversary following the date the small employer no longer meets the requirements of this paragraph. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit a carrier from including self-employed individuals in its definition of small employer.
