# § 43-51-6. Certification of operators of water or wastewater treatment plants and laboratory analysts; renewal; continuing education; training period

(a) The board shall certify persons as to their qualifications to operate wastewater treatment plants, wastewater collection systems, water distribution systems, or public water supply systems.
(b) Any person who operates a wastewater treatment plant, wastewater collection system, water distribution system, or public water supply system shall obtain a certificate from the board; provided, however, that each industrial wastewater treatment or pretreatment facility, wastewater collection system, or distribution system shall be required to have only one responsible operator obtain such a certificate; and provided, further, that any person who is operating a wastewater treatment plant on July 1, 1991, and who is required to obtain a certificate on or after July 1, 1991, but who was not required to have a certificate prior to said date, shall have until July 1, 1996, to obtain such certificate without being in violation of this chapter; provided, further, that no such person who is operating without a certificate a wastewater treatment plant on July 1, 1991, shall be authorized to operate any other wastewater treatment plant after July 1, 1991, without a certificate as required by the board. Such person shall make application to the board for such certificate, which application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount established by the board.
(c)
  (1) Any laboratory analyst who conducts certain tests, as defined by the board, of water or wastewater samples in conjunction with the operation of public water supply systems or wastewater treatment plants shall obtain a certificate from the board; provided, however, that any industrial wastewater or pretreatment plant shall be required to have only one responsible analyst obtain such a certificate, and any other analyst in that facility shall be supervised by such person. Such persons shall make application to the board for such a certificate, which application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount established by the board; provided, however, that until July 1, 1993, any person who has obtained or shall obtain certification by the board as an operator under this chapter shall not be required to obtain a certificate from the board to provide services as a laboratory analyst.
  (2) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection, any person who possesses certification by the board as Class I and II operators of a water treatment plant or wastewater treatment plant shall not be required to obtain a certificate to perform the duties of a laboratory analyst in conducting certain tests for reporting purposes as defined by the board.
(d) Any certificate granted under this chapter shall be renewable biennially. Application for renewal of certificates shall be accompanied by a renewal fee in an amount established by the board. The board shall be authorized to require continuing education as a condition of certificate renewal and to assess a registration fee to board approved continuing education providers. The board shall be authorized to waive the continuing education requirement in cases of hardship, disability, or illness or under such other circumstances as the board deems appropriate.
(e) The board may establish a training period during which a certificate is not required.
(f) Any person who possesses certification by the board as an operator of a public water supply system shall not be required to obtain a certificate to operate a water distribution system.
(g) Any person who possesses certification by the board as an operator of a wastewater treatment plant shall not be required to obtain a certificate to operate a wastewater collection system.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 220,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
