# § 43-51-3. Creation of board; members; qualifications; terms; vacancies; expenses; meetings; officers

(a) There is created the State Board of Examiners for Certification of Water and Wastewater Treatment Plant Operators and Laboratory Analysts. The board shall be composed of six members to be appointed by the Governor. The appointments shall be made as follows: one member from the technical staff of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources; one member who is a currently employed public water supply system operator holding a valid certificate of the highest classification issued by the board; one member who is a currently employed wastewater treatment plant operator holding a valid certificate of the highest classification issued by the board; one member who is an employee of a municipality or county required to employ a certified operator and who holds the position of municipal or county manager, engineer, director of public works, or director of water supply and water pollution control; and one member who is a consultant in the field of water supply and water pollution control or who is engaged in teaching or administering courses in water supply and water pollution control in an educational institution in this state. The sixth member shall be appointed from the public at large and shall have no connection whatsoever with the water and wastewater treatment industry. The initial term for the member appointed from the public at large shall expire June 30, 1984; thereafter, the Governor shall appoint successors for a term of four years. The other five members of the board shall serve four-year terms, which terms shall be staggered so that the terms of two members shall expire one year and the term of one member shall expire in each of the following three years. No member of the board may serve more than two consecutive full terms.
(b) The Governor may fill any vacancy in the appointed membership of the board and may remove any appointed member for cause.
(c) The members of the board shall be reimbursed as provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 43-1-2.
(d) The members of the board shall meet for an organization meeting at the call of the division director, within 60 days after their appointments and thereafter at least twice a year, at such time and place as may be provided by rules and regulations adopted and promulgated by them; provided, however, that special meetings may be called by the chairman or the division director at such time and under such circumstances as they may deem necessary and proper; and, provided, further, that any notice of such meeting shall be given all members in writing at least ten days prior to the date of the meeting.
(e) At the first meeting of the board and annually thereafter, the members shall elect one of its members to serve as chairman and one to serve as vice-chairman.
