# § 43-51-2. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the State Board of Examiners for Certification of Water and Wastewater Treatment Plant Operators and Laboratory Analysts.
(2) "Certificate" means a document issued by the board stating that the operator or laboratory analyst has met the requirements for the specified operator classification of the certification program.
(3) "Director" means the director of the Division of Environmental Protection of the Department of Natural Resources.
(4) "Division" means the Division of Environmental Protection of the Department of Natural Resources.
(5) "Laboratory analyst" means any person who tests water or wastewater samples in conjunction with the operation of public water supply systems or wastewater treatment plants.
(6) "Operator" means any person who performs operational duties and water treatment plant and wastewater treatment plant laboratory testing for reporting purposes for operator classifications I and II, as defined by the board, at wastewater treatment plants, wastewater collection systems, water distribution systems, or public water supply systems.
(7) "Person" means any individual, corporation, company, association, partnership, county, municipality, state agency, federal agency, or other entity.
(8) "Public water supply system" means the system of pipes, structures, and facilities through which water is obtained and treated to be offered to the public for household use or for any other public consumption.
(9) "Wastewater collection system" means the system of sanitary sewers, pipes, manholes, pumps, and other such apparatus used to convey sewage to wastewater treatment plants.
(10) "Wastewater treatment plant" means the facilities provided for the treatment and disposal of wastewater, including industrial process wastewater.
(11) "Water distribution system" means the system of pipes, pumps, valves, and other such apparatus used to distribute water to the public.
(12) "Water treatment plant" means that portion of the water supply system which in some way alters the physical, chemical, or bacteriological quality of the water.
