# § 9-11-58. Entry of judgment; judge's name to be typed, printed, or stamped after signature; filing of civil case disposition form

(a)Signing. Except when otherwise specifically provided by statute, all judgments shall be signed by the judge and filed with the clerk. The signature of the judge shall be followed by the spelling of the judge's name and title legibly typed, printed, or stamped. The failure of the judgment to have the typed, printed, or stamped name of the judge shall not invalidate the judgment.
(b)When judgment entered. The filing with the clerk of a judgment, signed by the judge, with the fully completed civil case disposition form constitutes the entry of the judgment, and, unless the court otherwise directs, no judgment shall be effective for any purpose until the entry of the same, as provided in this subsection. As part of the filing of the final judgment, a civil case disposition form shall be filed by the prevailing party or by the plaintiff if the case is settled, dismissed, or otherwise disposed of without a prevailing party; provided, however, that the amount of a sealed or otherwise confidential settlement agreement shall not be disclosed on the civil case disposition form. The form shall be substantially in the form prescribed by the Judicial Council of Georgia. If any of the information required by the form is sealed by the court, the form shall state that fact and the information under seal shall not be provided. The entry of the judgment shall not be made by the clerk of the court until the civil case disposition form is filed. The entry of the judgment shall not be delayed for the taxing of costs. This subsection shall not apply to actions brought pursuant to Article 3 of Chapter 7 of Title 44, relating to landlord and tenant dispossessory proceedings.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 240,§ 2-2, eff. 1/1/2018.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 660,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
