# § 9-11-16. Pretrial procedure; formulating issues; order; calendar

(a) Upon the motion of any party, or upon its own motion, the court shall direct the attorneys for the parties to appear before it for a conference to consider:
  (1) The simplification of the issues;
  (2) The necessity or desirability of amendments to the pleadings;
  (3) The possibility of obtaining admissions of fact and of documents which will avoid unnecessary proof;
  (4) The limitation of the number of expert witnesses; and
  (5) Such other matters as may aid in the disposition of the action.
(b) The court shall make an order which recites the action taken at the conference and the agreements made by the parties as to any of the matters considered and which limits the issues for trial to those not disposed of by admissions or agreements of counsel. The order, when entered, controls the subsequent course of the action unless modified at the trial to prevent manifest injustice. After entry of the pretrial order, it shall be within the discretion of the court to permit or disallow the presentation of testimony from any expert witness whose name is not contained in the pretrial order; provided, however, that if the additional expert witness is permitted to testify, any opposing party shall be permitted reasonable time to take the deposition of the additional expert witness. The court, in its discretion, may establish by rule a pretrial calendar on which actions may be placed for consideration as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section and may either confine the calendar to jury actions or to nonjury actions or extend it to all actions.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 949, § 1.1, eff. 7/1/2002.
