# § 9-11-62. Stay of proceedings to enforce a judgment

(a)Stay upon entry of judgment. No execution shall issue upon a judgment nor shall proceedings be taken for its enforcement until the expiration of ten days after its entry, except that, in the case of a default judgment, execution may issue and enforcement proceedings may be taken at any time after entry of judgment and except that, in any case in which both the plaintiff or plaintiffs and the defendant or defendants agree, in writing, and file a copy of such agreement with the clerk of the court, execution may issue and enforcement proceedings may be taken at any time after entry of judgment. Unless otherwise ordered by the court, an interlocutory or final judgment in an action for an injunction or in a receivership action shall not be stayed during the period after its entry and until an appeal is taken or during the pendency of an appeal. Subsection (c) of this Code section governs the suspending, modifying, restoring, or granting of an injunction during the pendency of an appeal.
(b)Stay on motion for new trial or for judgment. The filing of a motion for a new trial or motion for judgment notwithstanding the verdict shall act as supersedeas unless otherwise ordered by the court; but the court may condition supersedeas upon the giving of bond with good security in such amounts as the court may order.
(c)Injunction pending appeal. When an appeal is taken from an interlocutory or final judgment granting, dissolving, or denying an injunction, the court in its discretion may suspend, modify, restore, or grant an injunction during the pendency of the appeal upon such terms as to bond or otherwise as it considers proper for the security of the rights of the adverse party.
(d)Stay in favor of the state or agency thereof. When an appeal is taken by the state or by any county, city, or town within the state, or an officer or agency thereof, and the operation or enforcement of the judgment is stayed, no bond, obligation, or other security shall be required from the appellant.
(e)Power of appellate court not limited. The provisions in this Code section do not limit any power of an appellate court or of a judge or justice thereof to stay proceedings during the pendency of an appeal or to suspend, modify, restore, or grant an injunction during the pendency of an appeal or to make any order appropriate to preserve that status quo or the effectiveness of the judgment subsequently to be entered.
(f)Stay of judgment as to multiple claims or multiple parties. When a court has ordered a final judgment under the conditions stated in subsection (b) of Code Section 9-11-54, the court may stay enforcement of that judgment until the entering of a subsequent judgment or judgments and may prescribe such conditions as are necessary to secure the benefit thereof to the party in whose favor the judgment is entered.
