# § 31-9A-2. Definitions

(1) "Abortion" means the use or prescription of any instrument, medicine, drug, or any other substance or device with the intent to terminate the pregnancy of a female known to be pregnant. The term "abortion" shall not include the use or prescription of any instrument, medicine, drug, or any other substance or device employed solely to increase the probability of a live birth, to preserve the life or health of the child after live birth, or to remove a dead unborn child who died as the result of a spontaneous abortion. The term "abortion" also shall not include the prescription or use of contraceptives.
(2) "Medical emergency" means any condition which, in reasonable medical judgment, so complicates the medical condition of a pregnant female as to necessitate the immediate abortion of her pregnancy to avert her death or for which a delay will create serious risk of substantial or irreversible impairment of a major bodily function of the pregnant woman or death of the unborn child. No such condition shall be deemed to exist if it is based on a diagnosis or claim of a mental or emotional condition of the pregnant woman or that the pregnant woman will purposefully engage in conduct which she intends to result in her death or in substantial and irreversible physical impairment of a major bodily function.
(3) "Physician" means a person licensed to practice medicine under Article 2 of Chapter 34 of Title 43.
(4) "Probable gestational age of the unborn child" means the physician's best professional estimate of the probable gestational age of the unborn child at the time an abortion is to be performed.
(5) "Qualified agent" means the agent of the physician who is a patient educator, licensed psychologist, licensed social worker, licensed professional counselor, licensed physician assistant, registered nurse, or physician.
(6) "Secure Internet website" means a website that is safeguarded from having its content altered other than by the commissioner of public health.
(7) "Unborn child" or "fetus" means a member of the species homo sapiens from fertilization until birth.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 631,§; 5, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§; 6-5, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§; 3, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§; 1-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 400,§; 6, eff. 5/10/2005.
