# § 43-27-7. Reciprocity; provisional license

(a) The board, in its discretion and otherwise subject to this chapter and the rules and regulations of the board promulgated under this chapter prescribing the qualifications for a personal care home administrator license, an assisted living community administrator license, and a nursing home administrator license, may issue a license to a personal care home administrator, an assisted living community administrator, or a nursing home administrator who has been issued a license by the proper authorities of any state or issued a certificate of qualification by any national organization, upon payment of a fee to be fixed by the board and upon submission of evidence satisfactory to the board that such other state or national organization maintains a system and standard of qualifications and examinations for a personal care home administrator license, an assisted living community administrator license, or a nursing home administrator license or certificate which is substantially equivalent to those required in this state.
(b) An applicant for licensure who meets the qualifications of subsection (a) of this Code section may be issued a provisional license by the board to practice as a personal care home administrator, assisted living community administrator, or nursing home administrator which shall be valid until the results of any examination required by the board and for which the applicant is scheduled to take are released. An applicant who has been issued a provisional license will be scheduled by the board to take the first available examination. If the applicant passes the examination, the provisional license shall be valid until the permanent license is issued. If the applicant fails to appear for the examination or if the applicant fails the examination, the provisional license shall become invalid immediately. The board may authorize the issuance of a second provisional license only to an applicant who provides just cause to the board as to why the applicant was unable to appear for the examination.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 403,§ 9, eff. 6/30/2020.
