# § 43-27-2. State Board of Long-Term Care Facility Administrators; members

(a) There is created the State Board of Long-Term Care Facility Administrators, which, on and after June 30, 2022, shall consist of eleven members. The members of the board shall be appointed by the Governor and confirmed by the Senate, as follows:
  (1) Four members who are nursing home administrators in this state, at least one of whom shall represent nonproprietary nursing homes;
  (2) Four members, each of whom are either a personal care home administrator or an assisted living community administrator; provided, however, that on and after July 1, 2021, all successor members appointed pursuant to this paragraph shall be either a licensed personal care home administrator or a licensed assisted living community administrator;
  (3) Two members of the public at large who are not personal care home administrators, assisted living community administrators, or nursing home administrators or pecuniarily interested in any personal care home, assisted living community, or nursing home, or have any connection with the personal care home, assisted living community, or nursing home industry whatsoever; and
  (4) One member who is a health care professional with at least a bachelor's degree, experience in elder care, and knowledge in dementia care and who is not a personal care home administrator, an assisted living community administrator, or a nursing home administrator or pecuniarily interested in any personal care home, assisted living community, or nursing home, or has any connection with the personal care home, assisted living community, or nursing home industry whatsoever.
(b) The term for all members shall be three years from the date of appointment. A member may be removed as provided in Code Section 43-1-17, including removal for failing to attend three meetings in one calendar year. All vacancies shall be filled by the Governor for the unexpired terms in accordance with the requirements for appointment to the vacant position.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 816,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 43, eff. 5/2/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 403,§ 9, eff. 6/30/2020.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-47, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
