# § 10-9-5. Transfer of duties of Department of Economic Development; actions to be performed by authority under contract with and on behalf of department; costs; ratification of past actions

The authority is authorized and directed to contract with the Department of Economic Development to exercise on behalf of the department such future responsibility in connection with the acquisition, construction, operation, management, and maintenance of the project as is now or may be vested in the department; and the Department of Economic Development is authorized by such contract to delegate to the authority all of its responsibilities and powers with respect to the project and to transfer to the authority any and all contracts, plans, documents, or other papers of said department relating to the project, together with any and all funds heretofore or hereafter appropriated to it for the acquisition, construction, operation, management, or maintenance of the project or for all other purposes related to the project, other than appropriations made specifically for debt service purposes, as compensation to the authority under such contract. Under contract with the Department of Economic Development, as authorized in this Code section, the authority on behalf of the Department of Economic Development shall plan, construct, erect, acquire, own, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage the project, as hereinabove defined, on property owned by or leased by the State of Georgia in the City of Atlanta, Georgia, the cost of any such project to be paid in full or in part from the proceeds of general obligation bonds issued by the State of Georgia as the General Assembly may authorize or from such proceeds and other funds as may be available for such purposes, including any grant from the United States of America or any agency or instrumentality thereof. All actions of the authority and the Department of Economic Development, or their predecessors, heretofore taken in connection with such contractual relationship, are ratified and confirmed and shall not be affected by any provision of this chapter. Nothing in this Code section shall affect the powers or duties of the Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission or of the State Properties Commission. Nothing in this Code section nor anything in any contract between the authority and the Department of Economic Development shall prevent the Department of Economic Development from contracting with the Georgia Building Authority for the provision of a parking facility or for any other exercise of its powers necessary or convenient to the department.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 4, eff. 7/1/2004.
