# § 10-9-50. Enforceability against authority; limitation on state liability

(a)
  (1) Revenue bonds issued under the authority of this article shall not be deemed to constitute a debt of the state or a pledge of the faith and credit of the state. The bonds shall be enforceable against the authority only to the extent of, and only against funds derived from, the rents, revenues, earnings, and funds derived from the facilities designated by the resolution authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds or which are otherwise available to the authority for such purposes which are so designated, including but not limited to rents, revenues, earnings, and funds which are:
    (A) Payable to the authority by the lessee or lessees and received by the authority from the lessee or lessees under the lease or leases by the authority of the facilities acquired or improved by the proceeds of such revenue bonds described in the resolutions authorizing the issuance of such revenue bonds;
    (B) Payable to the authority under such contracts as may be entered into in accordance with Code Section 10-9-49, relating to the facilities acquired or improved by the proceeds of the revenue bonds or the use thereof or services provided through such facilities, which are designated as security for the revenue bonds;
    (C) Payable to the authority under such other contracts or agreements relating to the facilities acquired or improved by the proceeds of the revenue bonds as may be designated as security for such bonds; and
    (D) As may otherwise be designated as security for such bonds either:
      (i) derived from or in connection with the facilities acquired or improved by the proceeds of the revenue bonds or the use or operation thereof or the services provided through such facilities; or
      (ii) otherwise available to the authority for such purposes. The bonds shall be payable solely from the rents, revenues, earnings, and funds described in this paragraph, except that the bonds may, in addition and in the discretion of the authority, be paid in part by the authority from any other source of funds lawfully available to the authority for that purpose. The authority shall not be obligated in any way, however, to make any payments from any such other source of funds.
  (2) The issuance of the revenue bonds shall not directly or indirectly or contingently obligate the state to continue or to levy or pledge any form of taxation whatsoever therefor or to continue or make any appropriation for the payment thereof. Revenue bonds issued under the authority of this article shall not be payable from or a charge upon any funds other than those pledged to the payment thereof nor shall the authority be otherwise directly or indirectly subject to any pecuniary liability thereon. Except as provided in this article, a holder or holders of any such revenue bonds, directly or through any trustee or receiver, shall not have the right to enforce payment thereof against the authority or any property of or any right of action of or against the authority nor shall any such revenue bonds constitute a charge, lien, or encumbrance, legal or equitable, upon any property of or any right of action of or against the authority.
(b) Notice of the limitations of this Code section shall be set forth on the face of the revenue bonds which shall further provide that the obligations of the authority thereunder are limited by the provisions of this article.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 10, eff. 5/9/2017.
