# § 10-9-20. Geo. L. Smith II Georgia World Congress Center Authority Overview Committee created; composition; officers; duties

There is created as a joint committee of the General Assembly the Geo. L. Smith II Georgia World Congress Center Authority Overview Committee to be composed of five members of the House of Representatives appointed by the Speaker of the House, one of whom shall be a member of the minority party, five members of the Senate appointed by the Senate Committee on Assignments, one of whom shall be a member of the minority party, the chairperson of the House Committee on Economic Development and Tourism or his or her designee, and the chairperson of the Senate Committee on Economic Development and Tourism or his or her designee. The members of the committee shall serve two-year terms concurrent with their terms as members of the General Assembly. The chairperson of the committee shall be appointed by the Senate Committee on Assignments from the membership of the committee, and the vice chairperson of the committee shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House from the membership of the committee. The chairperson and vice chairperson shall serve terms of two years concurrent with their terms as members of the General Assembly. Vacancies in an appointed member's position or in the offices of chairperson or vice chairperson of the committee shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. The committee shall periodically inquire into and review the operations of the Geo. L. Smith II Georgia World Congress Center Authority, as well as periodically review and evaluate the success with which the authority is accomplishing its statutory duties and functions as provided in this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 609,§ 2-1, eff. 5/6/2024.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 74,§ 5, eff. 4/30/2009.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 96, § 1, eff. 5/30/2003.
