# § 10-9-4-1. Adoption and enforcement of ordinances relating to property, affairs, and administration of authority; penalties

(a) In addition to and not in derogation of its other powers under this chapter, the authority is empowered to exercise such of the police powers of the state as may be necessary to maintain peace and order.
(b) The authority shall have legislative power to adopt reasonable ordinances relating to the property, affairs, and administration of the authority for which no provision has been made by general law and which are not inconsistent with the general laws and Constitution of the State of Georgia and the laws and Constitution of the United States. The officers of the Georgia World Congress Center Police, including the Security Guard Division thereof, and law enforcement officers acting within the jurisdiction of the authority under paragraph (3) of subsection (d) of Code Section 10-9-15, and subject to the requirements of Chapter 8 of Title 35, the "Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act," shall be authorized to serve and execute warrants and to make arrests for violation of ordinances adopted by the authority. For the purposes of exercising the powers and responsibilities of such officers as peace officers under paragraph (8) of Code Section 35-8-2, including their duties and responsibilities with respect to matters occurring within the limits of the facilities of the authority or requests by another law enforcement agency to provide aid and assistance, such officers shall have the same authority, powers, privileges, and immunities regarding enforcement of laws as law enforcement officers employed by the state. Prosecutions for violations of the ordinances of the authority shall be in the magistrate court sitting in the county in which such violation occurs as provided in Article 4 of Chapter 10 of Title 15. The authority may provide that ordinance violations may be tried upon citations with or without a prosecuting attorney as well as upon accusations in the manner prescribed in Code Section 15-10-63.
(c) The maximum punishment for violation of such an ordinance shall be stated in the ordinance and shall not exceed a fine of $500.00 or imprisonment for 60 days, or both.
(d) Nothing in this Code section shall prevent prosecution of any act which is a violation of an ordinance of the authority under any law applicable to such act.
