# § 53-8-13. General procedures

(a) A personal representative desiring to sell, rent, lease, exchange, or otherwise dispose of property other than property that is perishable, liable to deteriorate, or expensive to keep or listed stocks and bonds shall file a petition with the probate court stating the property involved and the interests in such property; the specific purpose of the transaction; the proposed price, if any; and all other terms or conditions proposed for the transaction and listing the names, addresses, and ages or majority status of all heirs of an intestate estate or of all beneficiaries of a testate estate. In the event full particulars are lacking, the petition shall state the reasons for any such omission.
(b) Upon the filing of the petition by the personal representative, the court shall issue a citation and serve notice on the heirs of an intestate estate or the affected beneficiaries of a testate estate in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 11 of this title.
(c) If no written objection by a person so served with notice is filed within the appropriate period of time following the service of such notice, as provided by Chapter 11 of this title, the probate court shall order such sale summarily in the manner and terms petitioned. If timely written objection is filed, the court shall hear the matter and grant or deny the petition for sale or make such other order as is in the best interest of the estate, which may require the sale to be private or at public outcry including confirmation of the sale by the court or otherwise. An appeal shall lie to the superior court in the manner, under the restrictions, and with the effect provided for appeals from the probate court in other cases.
(d) A personal representative shall make a full return to the probate court of every sale, specifying the property sold, the purchasers, the amounts received, and the terms of the sale.
(e) The recital in the personal representative's deed of compliance with the provisions of this Code section shall be prima-facie evidence of the facts recited.
(f) Where a personal representative sells real property under the provisions of this Code section, liens on such real property may be divested and transferred to the proceeds of the sale as a condition of the sale.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 508,§ 1-57, eff. 1/1/2021.
