# § 2-19-5-1. "Cotton ginner" defined; payment of excess funds in indemnity fund; filing claims

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Contingent claim" means a claim filed because a trustee in bankruptcy had asserted, on or before March 1, 2001, a preference claim against the claimant to recover payments without which the claimant would have suffered a loss compensable under this chapter. "Contingent claim" also means a claim that would have been contingent, if it had been filed by a producer on or before May 1, 2000, or by a ginner on or before July 1, 2000.
  (2) "Cotton ginner" means any person, firm, partnership, limited liability company, or corporation which operated a cotton gin in this state on May 1, 2000, and which incurred a loss as described in this Code section on or before May 1, 2000.
(b) If Congress so requires before January 1, 2002, notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, after all valid and properly filed noncontingent claims of cotton producers filed on or before May 1, 2000, have been paid and after all valid and properly filed contingent claims of cotton producers filed on or before August 1, 2001, have been paid, any moneys remaining in the Georgia Cotton Producers Indemnity Fund of 1999, shall be paid to cotton ginners who:
  (1) Incurred a loss as the result of the business failure of any cotton buyer doing business in this state or the failure or refusal of any such cotton buyer to pay the contracted price which had been agreed upon by the ginner and the buyer for cotton grown in this state on or after January 1, 1997, and which had been purchased or contracted by the ginner from cotton producers in this state;
  (2) Paid cotton producers the amount which the cotton ginner had agreed to pay for such cotton received from such cotton producers in this state;
  (3) Notified the Commissioner on or before May 1, 2000, either orally or in writing, of a loss sustained by such cotton ginner as a result of the business failure of any cotton buyer doing business in this state or the failure or refusal of such cotton buyer to pay the contracted price which had been agreed upon by the ginner and the buyer for cotton grown in this state on or after January 1, 1997, and which had been purchased or contracted by the ginner from cotton producers in this state; and
  (4) Filed any noncontingent claim for indemnification from the Georgia Cotton Producers Indemnity Fund of 1999 with the Commissioner, in writing and accompanied by sufficient proof of such losses, on or before July 1, 2000, or filed any contingent claim on or before August 1, 2001.
(c) Claims shall be filed by cotton ginners, shall contain the same information, and shall be verified in the same manner as provided in Code Section 2-19-4 for claims by cotton producers. The Commissioner shall have the same powers and duties to investigate, process, and pay claims of cotton ginners as provided in Code Section 2-19-3 for claims of cotton producers. Claims and the acceptance of payments on such claims shall be subject to Code Sections 2-19-6 and 2-19-7. Properly filed, verified, and proven claims by cotton ginners shall be paid by the Commissioner from the fund on or before December 31, 2001, or as soon as administratively practical thereafter. The payment of such claims shall not affect any payments which have previously been made to cotton producers from the fund. If insufficient moneys remain in the fund to pay the total amount of all claims filed by cotton ginners, claims shall be paid on a proportional basis, based on the ratio of each cotton ginner's properly filed and proven claim to the total of all cotton ginners' claims properly filed and proven. Any moneys remaining in the Georgia Cotton Producers Indemnity Fund of 1999 on January 1, 2002, after the payment of claims shall be paid into the general fund of the state treasury.
(d) Also notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, including subsection (c) of this Code section, any moneys remaining in the Georgia Cotton Producers Indemnity Fund of 1999 after all valid and properly filed noncontingent claims of cotton producers have been paid, shall also be paid to eligible cotton producers who filed contingent but otherwise valid claims on or before August 1, 2001.
(e) For a contingent claim to be paid, the claimant must tender proof acceptable to the Commissioner no later than November 30, 2001, that the contingency has occurred and the claimant has suffered the loss which would have been eligible but for the alleged preference payments. A contingent claim may be paid from the fund only to the extent of the actual recovery by the trustee. The Commissioner shall consider the reasonableness of any settlement or any apparent failure to litigate in good faith with the trustee. The Commissioner may cast upon contingent claimants the burden of proving the reasonableness of any settlement or apparent failure to litigate in good faith.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 2, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 294, § 3, eff. 4/27/2001.
