# § 43-38-4. Creation of board; members; secretary; records; general powers and duties

(a) There is created the Georgia Board of Private Detective and Security Agencies. The board shall consist of seven members, each of whom shall be appointed by the Governor. Each member shall serve for a term of four years. Four members shall be engaged in the contract private detective or contract private security business and shall have at least four years of experience in such business immediately preceding their appointment; provided, however, that on and after October 1, 1987, at least two members shall be engaged in the contract private security business. Two members shall be engaged in state, county, or municipal law enforcement and shall have at least four years of experience in governmental law enforcement immediately preceding their appointment. One member shall be appointed from the public at large. At the first meeting of the board held each year, the members shall elect a chairman to serve for one year. The Governor may remove any member of the board for neglect of duty, incompetence, or other unethical or dishonorable conduct. After such removal or after the creation of a vacancy due to death, resignation, or ineligibility, the Governor shall appoint a successor to serve the unexpired term. Appointees to the board shall, immediately after their appointment, take and subscribe to a written oath or affirmation required by law for all public officers.
(b) The members of the board shall be reimbursed as provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 43-1-2.
(c) The division director shall be the secretary of the board and shall perform such administrative duties as may be prescribed by the board. All official records of the board or affidavits by the division director as to the content of such records shall be prima-facie evidence of all matters required to be kept therein.
(d) In addition to any authority otherwise granted by this chapter and subject to the laws relating to the division director, the board shall have the following powers and duties:
  (1) To determine the qualifications of applicants for licenses or registration under this chapter;
  (2) To investigate alleged violations of this chapter or any rules and regulations adopted by the board, including the power to conduct inspections of a licensee's employee lists and training records;
  (3) To promulgate all rules and regulations necessary to carry out this chapter;
  (4) To establish and enforce standards governing the conduct of persons licensed and registered under this chapter;
  (5) To maintain in its name an action for injunctive or other appropriate legal or equitable relief to remedy violations of this chapter. In pursuing equitable remedies, it shall not be necessary that the board allege or prove that it has no adequate remedy at law. It is declared that violations of this chapter are a menace and a nuisance and are dangerous to the public health, safety, and welfare;
  (6) To recommend to the division director the employment or appointment of such personnel, including, but not limited to, inspectors, as may be necessary to assist the board in exercising and performing any and all the powers, duties, and obligations set forth in this chapter;
  (7) To require a licensee to maintain and keep such records as are subject to inspection under this chapter;
  (8) To issue, renew, deny, suspend, or revoke licenses, certificates, registrations, or permits in a manner consistent with this chapter;
  (9) To hold hearings on all matters properly brought before it and, in connection therewith, to administer oaths, receive evidence, make the necessary determinations, and enter orders consistent with the findings; and
  (10) To develop and apply such techniques which may include examinations as may be deemed necessary to assure that applicants licensed, registered, or issued weapons permits have the requisite skills and qualifications.
