# § 42-5-50. Transmittal of information on convicted persons; place of detention; payment for inmates not transferred to the custody of the department; notice in the event of convicted person free on bond pending appeal

(a) The clerk of the court shall notify the commissioner of a sentence within 30 working days following the receipt of the sentence and send other documents set forth in this Code section. Such notice shall be submitted electronically and shall contain the following documents:
  (1) A certified copy of the sentence;
  (2) A complete history of the convicted person, including a certified copy of the indictment, accusation, or both and such other information as the commissioner may require;
  (3) An affidavit of the custodian of such person indicating the total number of days the convicted person was incarcerated prior to the imposition of the sentence. It shall be the duty of the custodian of such person to transmit the affidavit provided for in this paragraph to the clerk of the superior court within ten days following the date on which the sentence is imposed;
  (4) Order of probation revocation or tolling of probation; and
  (5) A copy of the sentencing information report is required in all jurisdictions with an options system day reporting center certified by the Department of Community Supervision. The failure to provide the sentencing information report shall not cause an increase in the 15 day time period for the department to assign the inmate to a correctional institution as set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section. All of the aforementioned documents shall be submitted on forms provided by the commissioner. The commissioner shall file one copy of each such document with the State Board of Pardons and Paroles within 30 working days of receipt of such documents from the clerk of the court. Except where the clerk is on a salary, the clerk shall receive from funds of the county the fee prescribed in Code Section 15-6-77 for such service.
(b) Within 15 days after the receipt of the information provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section, the commissioner shall assign the convicted person to a correctional institution designated by the commissioner in accordance with subsection (b) of Code Section 42-5-51. It shall be the financial responsibility of the correctional institution to provide for the picking up and transportation, under guard, of the inmate to the inmate's assigned place of detention. If the inmate is assigned to a county correctional institution or other county facility, the county shall assume such duty and responsibility.
(c) The state shall pay for each such inmate not transferred to the custody of the department from a county facility the per diem rate specified by subsection (c) of Code Section 42-5-51 for each day the inmate remains in the custody of the county after the department receives the notice provided by subsection (a) of this Code section.
(d) In the event that the convicted person is free on bond pending the appeal of his or her conviction, the notice provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be transmitted to the commissioner until all appeals of such conviction have been disposed of or until the bond shall be revoked.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-71, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 42, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 709,§ VII-7-5, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 403,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 595, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
