# § 42-5-52.2. Testing of prison inmates for HIV; consolidation of inmates testing positive

(a) For purposes of this Code section, "HIV" means HIV as defined by Code Section 31-22-9.1.
(b) The department shall implement an HIV testing program whereby any state inmate who has been in the custody of a state penal institution for one year or longer and who has not previously tested positive for HIV shall be tested for HIV within 30 days prior to his or her expected date of release from the custody of the department.
(c) Each person tested as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section shall be notified by the department in writing of the results of such testing prior to his or her release. Prior to the release of any person testing positive for HIV, the appropriate information as required by Code Sections 24-12-21 and 31-22-9.2 or other law shall be provided by the department to the Department of Public Health. Prior to the release of any person testing positive for HIV, the department shall also provide to such person in writing contact information regarding medical, educational, and counseling services available through the Department of Public Health. Any person testing positive for HIV shall be provided instruction relating to living with HIV, the prevention of the spread of such virus, and the legal consequences of infecting unknowing partners.
(d) The department shall seek state and federal grants or other possible sources of revenue for the purpose of funding a program of HIV testing authorized by this Code section. In addition, the department is authorized to accept gifts, subject to the approval of the board, for the purpose of funding such program.
(e) The department shall consolidate inmates who have tested positive for HIV in a manner that most efficiently provides education, counseling, and treatment for such persons.
(f) The provisions of this Code section shall not be construed to limit the provision for HIV testing in Code Section 42-9-42.1.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 61, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§; 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 104,§; 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
