# § 42-5-65. Victim photographs prohibited; exception

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term "inmate" means any person confined in a penal institution or confined in another facility under the jurisdiction of or subject to the authority of the board or while under the custody of officials, officers, or employees under the authority of the board.
(b) An inmate who is serving a sentence for a violation of Chapter 5 of Title 16 relating to crimes against the person shall be prohibited from possessing or carrying about his or her person or maintaining in any prison cell or similar area under his or her control any photograph, picture, or similar depiction of any victim of the offense for which he or she is serving where such photograph, picture, or depiction was a part of the criminal investigation, prosecution, or evidence leading to the inmate's conviction.
(c) An inmate who is serving a sentence for a violation of Chapter 6 of Title 16 relating to sexual offenses shall be prohibited from possessing or carrying about his or her person or maintaining in any prison cell or similar area under his or her control any photograph, picture, or similar depiction of any victim of the offense for which he or she is serving.
(d) A person acting in violation of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(e) This Code section shall not apply where the photograph or picture is needed for use in any civil or criminal proceeding provided that the inmate receives permission by a court having jurisdiction over the proceeding and only for so long as and in such manner as directed by court order.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall limit further restrictions or limitations on the possession of contraband or victim photographs by persons confined or under the custody of the board as deemed appropriate by the board.

## History

Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 128,§ 2, eff. 5/18/2007.
