# § 42-5-123. Compensation by employers for administrative and other costs to the state

(a) The board shall ensure by rules or by contractual provisions that the privately owned profit-making employers compensate the department and the Georgia Correctional Industries Administration for any administrative costs or other costs incurred by the department or the administration for the operation of the program or programs. The board shall ensure by rules or by contractual provisions that the department and the administration are compensated for use of any employees of the department or the administration, use of any space owned by or under the control of the department or the administration, or use of any other resources of the department or the administration in the operation of the program or programs.
(b) Employers that participate in inmate work programs under this article shall be prohibited from providing any thing of value to the Board of Corrections, the Department of Corrections, the Georgia Correctional Industries Administration, or any officer or employee thereof other than the payments authorized by this Code section. The Board of Corrections, the Department of Corrections, the Georgia Correctional Industries Administration, and any officer or employee thereof shall be prohibited from accepting any thing of value, other than the payments authorized by this Code section, from employers that participate in inmate work programs under this article. As used in this Code section, the term "thing of value" shall have the same meaning as that term is defined in Code Section 16-10-2.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 128,§ 4, eff. 5/18/2007.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 383,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2005.
