# § 42-5-56. Visitation with minors by convicted sexual offenders

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "sexual offense" means a violation of Code Section 16-6-1, relating to the offense of rape; Code Section 16-6-2, relating to the offenses of sodomy and aggravated sodomy; Code Section 16-6-5.1, relating to the offense of improper sexual contact by employee or agent, improper sexual contact by a foster parent, and improper sexual contact by person in a position of trust; Code Section 16-6-22, relating to the offense of incest; or Code Section 16-6-22.2, relating to the offense of aggravated sexual battery, when the victim was under 18 years of age at the time of the commission of any such offense; or a violation of Code Section 16-6-3, relating to the offense of statutory rape; Code Section 16-6-4, relating to the offenses of child molestation and aggravated child molestation; or Code Section 16-6-5, relating to the offense of enticing a child for indecent purposes, when the victim was under 16 years of age at the time of the commission of any such offense.
(b) Any inmate with a current or prior conviction for any sexual offense as defined in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be allowed visitation with any person under the age of 18 years unless such person is the spouse, son, daughter, brother, sister, grandson, or granddaughter of the inmate and such person is not the victim of a sexual offense for which the inmate was convicted. If visitation with a minor is restricted by court order, permission for special visitation with the minor may be granted only by the court issuing such order.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 237,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 480,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 295,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2019.
