# § 42-5-54. Information from inmates relating to medical insurance; provision and payment of medical treatment for inmates

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Detention facility" means a county correctional institution, workcamp, or other county detention facility used for the detention of persons convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor.
  (2) "Inmate" means a person who is detained in a detention facility by reason of being convicted of a felony or a misdemeanor and who is insured under existing individual health insurance, group health insurance, or prepaid medical care coverage or is eligible for benefits under Article 7 of Chapter 4 of Title 49, the "Georgia Medical Assistance Act of 1977." Such term does not include any sentenced inmate who is the responsibility of the Department of Corrections.
  (3) "Officer in charge" means the warden, captain, or superintendent having the supervision of any detention facility.
(b) The officer in charge or his or her designee may require an inmate to furnish the following information:
  (1) The existence of any health insurance, group health plan, or prepaid medical care coverage under which the inmate is insured;
  (2) The eligibility for benefits to which the inmate is entitled under Article 7 of Chapter 4 of Title 49, the "Georgia Medical Assistance Act of 1977";
  (3) The name and address of the third-party payor; and
  (4) The policy or other identifying number.
(c) The officer in charge will provide a sick, injured, or disabled inmate access to medical services and may arrange for the inmate's health insurance carrier to pay the health care provider for the medical services rendered.
(d) The liability for payment for medical care described under subsection (b) of this Code section may not be construed as requiring payment by any person or entity, except by an inmate personally or by his or her carrier through coverage or benefits described under paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section or by or at the direction of the Department of Community Health pursuant to paragraph (2) of such subsection.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to relieve the governing authority, governmental unit, subdivision, or agency having the physical custody of an inmate from its responsibility to pay for any medical and hospital care rendered to such inmate regardless of whether such individual has been convicted of a crime.
