# § 24-5-510. Privileged communications between law enforcement officers and peer counselors

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Client" means a public safety officer.
  (2) "Peer counselor" means:
    (A) An employee of the Office of Public Safety Support within the Department of Public Safety; or
    (B) An individual who is certified by the support coordinator of the Office of Public Safety Support within the Department of Public Safety pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 35-2-163 who is an employee of a public entity that employs public safety officers and who is designated by the executive head of such public entity.
  (3) "Public entity" shall have the same meaning as provided for in Code Section 35-2-160.
  (4) "Public safety officer" means a peace officer, correctional officer, emergency health worker, firefighter, highway emergency response operator, jail officer, juvenile correctional officer, probation officer, or emergency services dispatcher.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, communications between a client and a peer counselor shall be privileged. A peer counselor shall not disclose any such communications made to him or her and shall not be competent or compellable to testify with reference to any such communications in any court.
(c) The privilege created by subsection (b) of this Code section shall not apply when:
  (1) The disclosure is authorized by the client, or if the client is deceased, by his or her executor or administrator, and if an executor or administrator is not appointed, by the client's next of kin;
  (2) Compelled by court order;
  (3) The peer counselor was an initial responding public safety officer, witness, or party to an act that is the subject of the counseling;
  (4) The communication was made when the peer counselor was not performing official duties; or
  (5) The client is charged with a crime.
(d) The privilege created by this Code section shall not be grounds to fail to comply with mandatory reporting requirements as set forth in Code Section 19-7-5 or Chapter 5 of Title 30, the "Disabled Adults and Elder Persons Protection Act."

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 569,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 24, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 439,§ 1, eff. only if funds are specifically appropriated for the purposes of this Act in an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly. (b) If funds are so appropriated, then this Act shall become effective on the later of: (1) The date on which such appropriations Act becomes effective; or (2) The beginning date of the fiscal year for which such appropriations are made..
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 542,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
