# § 24-5-501. Certain communications privileged

(a) There are certain admissions and communications excluded from evidence on grounds of public policy, including, but not limited to, the following:
  (1) Communications between husband and wife;
  (2) Communications between attorney and client;
  (3) Communications among grand jurors;
  (4) Secrets of state;
  (5) Communications between psychiatrist and patient;
  (6) Communications between licensed psychologist and patient as provided in Code Section 43-39-16;
  (7) Communications between a licensed clinical social worker, clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health, licensed marriage and family therapist, or licensed professional counselor and patient;
  (8) Communications between or among any psychiatrist, psychologist, licensed clinical social worker, clinical nurse specialist in psychiatric/mental health, licensed marriage and family therapist, and licensed professional counselor who are rendering psychotherapy or have rendered psychotherapy to a patient, regarding that patient's communications which are otherwise privileged by paragraph (5), (6), or (7) of this subsection; and
  (9) Communications between accountant and client as provided by Code Section 43-3-29.
(b) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Psychotherapy" means the employment of psychotherapeutic techniques.
  (2) "Psychotherapeutic techniques" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 43-10A-3.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 492,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2013.
