# § 42-2-2. Board members, officers, records, and compensation

(a) On and after July 1, 1983, the board shall consist of one member from each congressional district in the state and five additional members from the state at large. All members shall be appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the Senate. The initial terms of members shall be as follows: two members representative of congressional districts and one at-large member shall be appointed for a term ending July 1, 1984; two members representative of congressional districts and one at-large member shall be appointed for a term ending July 1, 1985; two members representative of congressional districts and one at-large member shall be appointed for a term ending July 1, 1986; two members representative of congressional districts and one at-large member shall be appointed for a term ending July 1, 1987; and two members representative of congressional districts and one at-large member shall be appointed for a term ending July 1, 1988. Thereafter, all members appointed to the board by the Governor shall be appointed for terms of five years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. In the event of a vacancy during the term of any member by reason of death, resignation, or otherwise, the appointment of a successor by the Governor shall be for the remainder of the unexpired term of such member.
(b) The first members appointed under this Code section shall be appointed for terms which begin July 1, 1983. The members of the board serving on April 1, 1983, shall remain in office until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(c) The board shall annually elect one of its members as chairman and shall elect from its membership a secretary of the board. The secretary of the board shall keep adequate records and minutes of all business and official acts of the board. Records of the board shall be maintained in the office of the commissioner.
(d) Each member of the Board of Corrections shall receive the sum provided for by Code Section 45-7-21 for each day of actual attendance at meetings of the board and for each day of travel as a member of a committee of the board. In addition, upon recommendation by the chairman or the board, each member shall receive for out-of-state travel actual expenses incurred in connection therewith and reimbursement for actual transportation costs while traveling by public carrier or the legal mileage rate for the use of a personal automobile in connection with such attendance. Such sums, expenses, and costs shall be paid from funds appropriated or otherwise available to the Department of Corrections.
