# § 42-2-11. Powers and duties of board; adoption of rules and regulations

(a) The board shall establish the general policy to be followed by the department and shall have the duties, powers, authority, and jurisdiction provided for in this title or as otherwise provided by law.
(b) The board is authorized to adopt, establish, and promulgate rules and regulations governing the transaction of the business of the penal system of the state by the department and the commissioner and the administration of the affairs of the penal system in the different penal institutions coming under its authority and supervision and shall make the institutions as self-supporting as possible.
(c)
  (1) The board shall adopt rules governing the assignment, housing, working, feeding, clothing, treatment, discipline, rehabilitation, training, and hospitalization of all inmates coming under its custody.
  (2)
    (A) As used in this paragraph, the term:
      (i) "Evidence based practices" means supervision policies, procedures, programs, and practices that scientific research demonstrates reduce recidivism among individuals who are under some form of correctional supervision.
      (ii) "Recidivism" means returning to prison or jail within three years of being placed on probation or being discharged or released from a department or jail facility.
    (B) The board shall adopt rules and regulations governing the management and treatment of inmates coming under its custody to ensure that evidence based practices, including the use of a risk and needs assessment and any other method the board deems appropriate, guide decisions related to preparing inmates for release into the community. Any risk and needs assessment instrument shall be revalidated by January 1, 2019, and every five years thereafter. The board shall require the department to collect and analyze data and performance outcomes relevant to the level and type of treatment given to an inmate and the outcome of the treatment on his or her recidivism and prepare an annual report regarding such information which shall be submitted to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairpersons of the House Committee on Judiciary and the Senate Judiciary Committee.
    (C) Using evidence based practices, the board shall evaluate the quality of the programming utilized at all department facilities, except state prisons, by January 1, 2019, and every five years thereafter, and shall publicly publish its report.
(d) The board shall also adopt rules and regulations governing the conduct and the welfare of the employees of the state institutions operating under its authority and of the county correctional institutions and correctional facilities or programs operating under its supervision. It shall prescribe the working hours and conditions of work for employees in the office of the commissioner and in institutions operating under the authority of the board.
(e) The board shall also adopt rules and regulations governing the negotiation and execution of any contract for the land acquisition, design, construction, operation, maintenance, use, lease, or management of a state correctional institution or for any services pertaining to the custody, care, and control of inmates or other functions as are related to the discharge of these responsibilities.
(f) The board shall adopt rules:
  (1) Providing for the transfer to a higher security facility of each inmate who commits battery or aggravated assault against a correctional officer while in custody; provided, however, that this provision shall not apply in instances where the inmate is already incarcerated in a maximum security facility; and
  (2) Specifying the procedures for offering department assistance to employees who are victims of battery or aggravated assault by inmates in filing criminal charges or civil actions against their assailants, including procedures for posting notices that such assistance is available to any employee who is subjected to battery or aggravated assault by an inmate, but not including legal representation of such employees.
(g) All rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this Code section shall be adopted, established, promulgated, amended, repealed, filed, and published in accordance with the applicable provisions and procedure as set forth in Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." The courts shall take judicial notice of any such rules or regulations.
(h) As used in this Code section, the words "rules and regulations" shall have the same meaning as the word "rule" is defined in paragraph (6) of Code Section 50-13-2.
(i) The board shall have the authority to request bids and proposals and to enter into contracts for the operation of probation detention centers by private companies and entities for the confinement of probationers under Code Section 42-8-35.4. The board shall have the authority to adopt, establish, and promulgate rules and regulations for the operation of probation detention centers by private companies and entities.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 226,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 8-2, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-68, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 42, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 709,§ VII-7-4, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 743,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
See 2006 Ga. Laws 743, § 3.
