# § 42-2-14. Power of Governor to declare state of emergency with regard to jail and prison overcrowding

The Governor, upon certification by the commissioner of corrections and approval by the director of the Office of Planning and Budget that the population of the prison system of the State of Georgia has exceeded the capacity of the prison system for any period of 90 consecutive days, beginning at any time after December 31, 1988, may declare a state of emergency with regard to jail and prison overcrowding. Following the declaration of such emergency, the department may establish additional facilities for use by the department, such facilities to be either of a permanent type of construction or of a temporary or movable type as the department may find most advantageous to the particular needs, to the end that the inmates under its supervision may be so distributed throughout the state as to facilitate individualization of treatment designed to prepare them for lawful living in the community where they are most likely to reside after their release from a correctional facility. For this purpose, the department may purchase or lease sites and suitable lands and erect necessary buildings thereon or purchase or lease existing facilities, all within the limits of appropriations as approved by the General Assembly. With the approval of the Governor, provisions of Chapter 5 of Title 50, relating to the Department of Administrative Services, or provisions of Code Section 50-6-25 or Chapter 22 of Title 50, relating to control over acquisition of professional services, may be waived by the department to facilitate the rapid construction or procurement of facilities for inmates; provided, however, that the authority to waive provisions of Code Section 50-6-25 shall terminate as of July 1, 1991. During any year in which correctional facilities are constructed or procured under this Code section and any requirements are waived, the department shall furnish the Governor and the General Assembly with a detailed report specifying the facilities constructed or procured, the requirements waived, and the reasons therefor.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 42, eff. 5/1/2012.
