# § 48-13-115. Nonparticipation of county within special district to enter into intergovernmental agreement

(a)
  (1) Within 30 days following the meeting required under Code Section 48-13-113, if the governing authority of the county within the special district fails or refuses to enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the governing authority of each municipality wishing to participate in such excise tax, then the governing authority of each municipality wishing to levy the excise tax shall be authorized to adopt an ordinance levying the excise tax within the corporate limits of such municipality. If a county elects not to participate in such excise tax by not signing such agreement, then the county shall not receive any proceeds from the excise tax. The proceeds of such excise tax shall be deposited in the general fund of each municipality.
  (2) If, subsequent to the levy of an excise tax by a municipality under paragraph (1) of this subsection, a county determines to commence proceedings for the imposition of the excise tax authorized under this article, then proceedings for such imposition shall commence in the same manner as otherwise provided under Code Section 48-13-113. Except as to a municipality that levies a water and sewer projects and costs tax pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 8 of this title, if a county complies with the requirements of this article and enacts an ordinance imposing the excise tax, the excise tax levied by such municipality shall cease on the day immediately prior to the day the new tax levied by the county commences. If such municipality elects not to participate, its current excise tax authorized under this article shall terminate on the date the county's tax levy becomes effective, and it shall not receive any proceeds under the county levy.
(b)
  (1) If a municipality located within a special district where the excise tax is imposed by the county is not participating in such excise tax and is not receiving proceeds of that excise tax, the governing authority of that nonparticipating municipality may give written notice to the governing authority of the county and the governing authority of each participating municipality within the special district of its decision to opt in to the existing intergovernmental agreement. Within 60 days of the date of such notice, an amended intergovernmental agreement shall be executed by the governing authority of the municipality exercising such opt in and the governing authorities of the county and each currently participating municipality.
  (2) When an amended intergovernmental agreement is executed pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, the revised distribution of proceeds thereunder shall not become effective until the first day of the next succeeding calendar quarter which begins more than 80 days after the execution date of such amended intergovernmental agreement. The distribution of proceeds of the excise tax shall continue under the prior intergovernmental agreement until the date provided for in this paragraph.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 260,§ 4, eff. 5/6/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 711,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2013.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 607,§ V-5-4, eff. 1/1/2013.
