# § 48-13-117. Procedures for payment, collection, and assessment; refund claims; contingent contract or arrangement for assessment of liability prohibited

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, the manner of payment and collection of the excise tax and all other procedures related to the tax, including, but not limited to, periodic auditing of dealers collecting and remitting the excise tax authorized under this article, shall be as provided by each county and municipality electing to exercise the powers conferred by this article.
(b)
  (1) The amount of the excise tax authorized by this article shall be assessed upon either the dealer or the purchaser within three years after the time that sales and use tax on the sale or use of such energy would have been due and payable under Code Section 48-8-30 but for the exemption in Code Section 48-8-3.2, except as otherwise provided in this Code section.
  (2) In the case of a dealer or purchaser who knowingly and willfully evades all or any portion of the excise tax imposed by this article, the amount of such excise tax evaded may be assessed at any time upon such dealer or such purchaser, as the case may be.
(c) No action without assessment shall be brought against either the dealer or the purchaser for the collection of any excise tax authorized by this article after the expiration of the period for assessment.
(d)
  (1) A claim for refund of the excise tax levied pursuant to this article erroneously or illegally assessed and collected may be made by the dealer or the purchaser at any time within three years after the date of the payment of the excise tax to the governing authority. In making any such claim for refund, the procedures provided in Code Section 48-5-380 shall apply.
  (2) If a claim for refund of taxes paid for any taxable period is filed within the last six months of the period during which the county or municipality imposing the tax may assess the amount of taxes, the assessment period is extended for a period of six months beginning on the day the claim for refund is filed.
(e) Where, before the expiration of the time prescribed in this Code section for the assessment of the excise tax authorized by this article, both an authorized representative of the governing authority and the dealer or purchaser have consented in writing to its assessment after such time, the excise tax may be assessed at any time prior to the expiration of the agreed upon period. The period so agreed upon may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing made before the expiration of the previously agreed upon period. The governing authority is authorized in any such agreement to extend similarly the period within which a claim for refund may be filed.
(f) In determining the liability of any dealer or purchaser for the excise tax, the governing authority imposing such tax may not employ or otherwise hire an agent who is compensated in whole or in part by such governing authority for services rendered on a contingent basis or any other basis related to the amount of tax, interest, or penalty assessed against or collected from the dealer or purchaser. Any such contract or arrangement, if made or entered into, is void and unenforceable.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 260,§ 6, eff. 5/6/2013.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 607,§ V-5-4, eff. 1/1/2013.
