# § 48-13-36. Actions; venue; service and return of summons; procedure; record book kept by Secretary of State; contents

An action against any contractor pursuant to this article may be brought by the attorney for the commissioner or by the Attorney General on behalf of the Department of Labor, in Fulton County or in any county in which any work under the contract is performed. The summons shall be directed to the Secretary of State and shall require the defendant to answer by a certain day, not less than 30 days nor more than 60 days from the date of the issuance of the summons. The summons shall be forwarded immediately by the clerk of the court to the Secretary of State who shall immediately forward a copy of the summons to the contractor at the address given by the contractor. After forwarding the summons, the Secretary of State shall make return of the summons to the court in which the summons was issued. The return shall show the date of receipt of the summons by the Secretary of State, the date of forwarding the copy of the summons, and the name and address of the person to whom the Secretary of State forwarded the copy of the summons. The return shall be under the hand and seal of the office of the Secretary of State and shall have the same force and effect as a due and sufficient return made by the sheriff on process directed to him. The Secretary of State shall keep a suitable record book in which he shall docket every action commenced as provided in this Code section against any contractor. The record book shall show the court in which the action is brought, the title of the case, the time when the action is commenced, and the date and manner of service.
