# § 48-13-114. Adoption of ordinance levying excise tax within special district

(a)
  (1) Following the meeting required under Code Section 48-13-113, the governing authority of the county within the special district shall enter into an intergovernmental agreement with the governing authority of each municipality wishing to participate in such excise tax that provides for the distribution of the proceeds as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section. Following the execution of such agreement, the governing authority of such county shall be authorized to adopt an ordinance levying the excise tax.
  (2) If a municipality elects not to participate in such excise tax by not signing such agreement, then such municipality shall not receive any proceeds from the excise tax. In such event, any proportionate share that would have been distributed to such municipality under an applicable local sales and use tax as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section shall instead be distributed to the general fund of the county.
(b) The excise tax proceeds shall be allocated and distributed by the county governing authority at the end of each calendar month. Of such excise tax proceeds, an amount equal to 1 percent of the proceeds collected by the county shall be paid into the general fund of the county to defray the costs of collection and administration. The remainder of the proceeds shall be distributed in accordance with the intergovernmental agreement as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section.
(c) The excise tax proceeds shall be allocated and distributed by the county governing authority within 30 days following the end of each calendar month in the manner provided in this subsection. Such proceeds shall not be subject to any use or expenditure requirements provided for under any of the local sales and use taxes but shall be authorized to be expended in the same manner as otherwise would have been required under such local sales and use taxes or may be expended for any lawful purpose. Of such excise tax proceeds:
  (1) If two such local sales and use taxes are in effect in the special district, an amount equal to one-half of the proceeds of the excise tax shall be distributed to the county general fund and the general fund of each participating municipality located in such county according to the same proportionate share as specified under the distribution provisions of the first local sales and use tax and an amount equal to one-half of the proceeds of the excise tax shall be distributed to the county general fund and the general fund of each participating municipality located in such county according to the same proportionate share as specified under the distribution provisions of the second local sales and use tax; or
  (2) If only one such local sales and use tax is in effect in the special district, then the proceeds of the excise tax shall be distributed to the county general fund and the general fund of each participating municipality located in such county according to the same proportionate share as specified under the distribution provisions of the local sales and use tax.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 607,§ V-5-4, eff. 1/1/2013.
