# § 48-13-55. Facility operated by charitable trust or functionally related business; license fees; limitation on or applicability of tax levies

(a) A charitable trust, or a functionally related business of a charitable trust, which regularly furnishes for value rooms, lodgings, or accommodations shall be subject to local licensure by, or required to pay a business or occupation tax to, a county or municipality only to the extent provided in this Code section. Further, such a charitable trust, or such a functionally related business of a charitable trust, shall be subject to taxes levied under Code Section 48-13-51 only to the extent provided in this Code section.
(b) Any license fee of any type, whether a flat fee or based on gross receipts, charged by a county or municipality to a charitable trust, or to a functionally related business of a charitable trust or any affiliated activity, shall not exceed $200.00 per year.
(c) Any tax levied by a county or municipality under Code Section 48-13-51 shall apply to a charitable trust, or a functionally related business of a charitable trust, only if the levy and collection of the tax is approved in advance in writing by the Board of Natural Resources. The Board of Natural Resources may revoke its approval at will. Amounts collected and remitted under the authority of this Code section shall be expended solely for promoting, attracting, stimulating, and developing conventions and tourism. The expenditure of the funds shall only be made under a written agreement between the charitable trust or its functionally related business and the local government. The agreement governing the expenditure of the funds must be approved in writing by the Board of Natural Resources before any taxes are collected and remitted and before any funds are spent.
(d) For purposes of this Code section, the term "charitable trust" means any trust or other entity covered by Article 9 or 10 of Chapter 12 of Title 53. For purposes of this Code section, the term "functionally related business" means a business entity, whether or not incorporated, which is owned by such a charitable trust and which constitutes a functionally related business within the meaning of Section 4942(j)(4) of the federal Internal Revenue Code.
(e) This Code section (rather than conflicting provisions in Code Section 48-13-51) shall govern the licenses and license fees of, and the levy, collection, and expenditure of the taxes authorized by this article as applied to, a charitable trust or a functionally related business of a charitable trust.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2010.
