# § 48-13-112. Levy and collection of excise tax on sale or use of energy

(a)
  (1) Within the territorial limits of the special district located within the county, each county in this state may levy and collect an excise tax upon the sale or use of energy when such sale or use would have constituted a taxable event for purposes of sales and use tax under Article 1 of Chapter 8 of this title but for the exemption in Code Section 48-8-3.2.
  (2) The governing authority of each municipality in this state may, subject to the conditions of Code Section 48-13-115, levy and collect an excise tax upon the sale or use of energy when such sale or use would have constituted a taxable event for purposes of sales and use tax under Article 1 of Chapter 8 of this title but for the exemption in Code Section 48-8-3.2.
  (3) The excise tax levied pursuant to this article shall be phased in over a four-year period as follows:
    (A) For the period commencing January 1, 2013, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2013, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 25 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in Code Section 48-8-3.2;
    (B) For the period commencing January 1, 2014, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2014, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 50 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in Code Section 48-8-3.2;
    (C) For the period commencing January 1, 2015, and concluding at the last moment of December 31, 2015, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 75 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in Code Section 48-8-3.2; and
    (D) On or after January 1, 2016, such excise tax shall be at a rate equivalent to 100 percent of the total amount of local sales and use tax in effect in such special district that would be collected on the sale, use, storage, or consumption of energy but for the exemption in Code Section 48-8-3.2.
(b) Any county or municipality which imposes the excise tax under this article during the phase-in period provided for in this Code section shall levy such excise tax at the amount provided for under the applicable year of the phase in. Any county or municipality which imposes such excise tax on or after January 1, 2016, shall impose it at the rate specified under subparagraph (a)(3)(D) of this Code section.
(c)
  (1) The excise tax authorized by this article shall be imposed only at the time that sales and use tax on the sale or use of such energy would have been due and payable under Code Section 48-8-30 but for the exemption in Code Section 48-8-3.2. The excise tax shall be due and payable in the same manner as would be otherwise required under Article 1 of Chapter 8 of this title except as otherwise provided under this article. The excise tax shall be a debt of the purchaser of energy until it is paid and shall be recoverable at law in the same manner as authorized for the recovery of other debts. The dealer collecting the excise tax shall remit the excise tax to the governing authority imposing the excise tax. Every dealer required to collect the excise tax levied as provided in this article shall be liable for the excise tax at the applicable rate on the charges for energy actually collected or the amount of excise taxes collected from the purchasers of energy, whichever is greater.
  (2) Dealers shall be allowed a percentage of the amount of tax due and accounted for and shall be reimbursed in the form of a deduction in submitting, reporting, and paying the amount due if such amount is not delinquent at the time of payment. The rate of deduction shall be 3 percent of the amount due of the first $3,000.00 of the combined total amount of all excise tax computed on a monthly basis and due to each governmental authority imposing the tax and a deduction of one-half of 1 percent of the portion exceeding $3,000.00 of the combined total amount of all excise tax computed on a monthly basis and due to each governmental authority imposing the tax, but only if the amount due was not delinquent at the time of payment to the local government enacting such excise tax in accordance with Code Section 48-13-119.
(d) A county or municipality levying an excise tax as provided in this subsection shall only levy such excise tax initially by ordinance and at the equivalent rate as determined under paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section. Following such initial imposition, on or after January 1, 2016, the rate of the tax under this article shall be controlled by the maximum amount of local sales and use tax in effect in the special district, but in no event more than 2 percent; however, this 2 percent limitation shall not apply in a municipality that levies a water and sewer projects and costs tax pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 8 of this title, in which case there shall be a 3 percent limitation. In the event the total rate of local sales and use taxes in effect in the special district decreases from 2 percent to 1 percent, the rate of the excise tax under this article shall likewise be reduced at the same time such local sales and use tax rate reduction becomes effective. In the event the total rate of local sales and use taxes in effect in the special district increases from 1 percent to 2 percent, the rate of the excise tax under this article shall likewise be increased at the same time such local sales and use tax rate increase becomes effective.
(e) An excise tax under this article shall not be levied or collected by a county or municipality outside the territorial limits of the special district located within the county.
(f) An excise tax authorized under this article shall not apply to the sale or use of energy used for and in the construction of a competitive project of regional significance under paragraph (93) of Code Section 48-8-3 during the construction of such project within the time period specified under such paragraph (93).

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 260,§ 2, eff. 5/6/2013.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 607,§ V-5-4, eff. 1/1/2013.
