# § 48-13-20. Time for payment of fees and taxes

(a) All occupation taxes authorized by this chapter, except as otherwise specifically provided, shall be due and payable annually within 30 days following January 1, or such other date specified in the local government ordinance imposing the taxes. In the event that any person commences business on any date after the date specified in this Code section or in the local government ordinance imposing the tax, the tax shall be due and payable 30 days following the commencement of the business.
(b) Regulatory fees authorized by this chapter shall be paid before commencing business or the practice of a profession or occupation as a condition precedent for transacting business, or practicing a profession or occupation.
(c) Regulatory fees may be paid after commencing business or the practice of a profession or occupation when:
  (1) The work done or services provided are necessary for the health, comfort, or safety of one or more individuals or protection of property. This paragraph shall apply to, but not be limited to, the repair, service, or installation of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning equipment or systems;
  (2) The work done or services provided have no adverse effect on any other person;
  (3) Regulatory fees are tendered to the local government within two business days after commencing business or the practice of a profession or occupation and any and all required inspections are made in order to ensure compliance with applicable codes; and
  (4) The work is commenced or the services are provided within 24 hours of receiving the request for such work or service and it is not possible for the person conducting the work or providing the service to obtain a permit prior to commencing due to the hours of operation of the local government's offices.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 641,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2006.
