# § 48-13-120. Extension of time for making returns; penalties and interest; failure to make return

(a)
  (1) The governing authority imposing a tax authorized under this article may, for good cause, extend the time for making any returns required under this article for not more than 30 days.
  (2) No extension granted pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be valid unless granted in writing upon written application, and then the extension shall only be valid for a period, as appropriate, of not more than 12 consecutive months or four consecutive calendar quarters.
  (3) Upon the granting of any extension authorized by this subsection, the dealer shall remit to the governing authority imposing a tax authorized under this article on or before the date the tax would otherwise become due without the extension an amount which equals not less than 100 percent of the dealer's payment for the corresponding period of the preceding tax year.
  (4) No interest or penalty shall be charged by reason of the granting of an extension pursuant to this subsection during the first ten days of each extension period. Thereafter, interest shall be collected upon the unpaid balance of the dealer's liability at the rate specified in Code Section 48-2-40.
(b) In the event any dealer fails to make a return and pay the tax as provided by this article or makes a grossly incorrect return or a return that is false or fraudulent, the governing authority imposing a tax authorized under this article shall make an estimate for the taxable period of taxable charges of the dealer. Based upon its estimate, the governing authority shall assess and collect the taxes, interest, and penalties, as accrued, on the basis of the assessments against the dealer and such assessment may be assessed against the dealer at any time.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 260,§ 7, eff. 5/6/2013.
