# § 48-13-113. Notice of meeting to determine levy

Prior to the adoption of the ordinance levying an excise tax authorized under this article, the county governing authority within a special district shall meet and confer with each of the municipalities within the special district. Any county that desires to have an excise tax authorized under this article levied within the special district shall deliver or mail a written notice to the mayor or chief elected official in each municipality located within the special district. If the governing authority of such county does not deliver or mail such notice within 30 days of the date of the written request of the mayor or chief elected official of a municipality within the special district, then such mayor or chief elected official shall deliver or mail a written notice to the mayor or chief elected official in each municipality located within the special district and to the county governing authority. Such notice shall contain the date, time, place, and purpose of a meeting at which the governing authorities of the county and of each municipality are to discuss whether or not the excise tax should be levied within the special district. The notice shall be delivered or mailed at least ten days prior to the date of the meeting. The meeting shall be held at least 30 days prior to the adoption of any ordinance levying an excise tax authorized under this article.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 260,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2013.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 607,§ V-5-4, eff. 1/1/2013.
