# § 48-13-116. Imposition of excise tax; effective date; limitations

(a)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in Code Section 48-13-115, an excise tax authorized by this article shall become effective on the first day of the next succeeding calendar quarter which begins more than 80 days after the adoption date of an ordinance levying the excise tax.
  (2) If services are regularly billed on a monthly basis, however, the excise tax shall become effective with respect to and the tax shall apply to services billed on or after the effective date specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(b) The excise tax shall cease to be imposed on the first day of the next succeeding calendar quarter which begins more than 80 days after the adoption date of an ordinance terminating the excise tax.
(c) At no time shall more than a single 2 percent excise tax under this article be imposed within a special district or a municipality, except that in the event a municipality levies a water and sewer projects and costs tax pursuant to Article 4 of Chapter 8 of this title, a single 3 percent excise tax may be imposed within such municipality.
(d) Following the termination of an excise tax under this article, the governing authority of a county within a special district or the mayor or chief elected official of a municipality in the special district in which an excise tax authorized by this article is in effect may initiate proceedings for the reimposition of a tax under this article in the same manner as provided in this article for the initial imposition of such tax.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 260,§ 5, eff. 5/6/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 711,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2013.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 607,§ V-5-4, eff. 1/1/2013.
