# § 48-13-119. Transmittal of returns and remission of taxes due; form of returns; estimated tax liability

(a) Each dealer, on or before the twentieth day of each month, shall transmit returns and remit taxes due to any applicable governing authority imposing a tax authorized under this article showing the gross charges for energy taxable under the ordinance enacted pursuant to this article during the preceding calendar month. The governing authority imposing the tax may provide by resolution or ordinance for quarterly or annual returns. The returns required by this subsection shall be made upon forms prescribed, prepared, and furnished by the governing authority imposing the tax.
(b) As used in this subsection, the term "estimated tax liability" means a dealer's tax liability under the ordinance enacted pursuant to this article, adjusted to account for any subsequent change in the rate of tax authorized to be imposed under this article. If the estimated tax liability of a dealer for any taxable period exceeds $2,500.00, the dealer shall file a return and remit to the governing authority imposing the tax not less than 50 percent of the estimated tax liability for the taxable period on or before the twentieth day of the period. The amount of the payment of the estimated tax liability shall be credited against the amount to be due on the return required under subsection (a) of this Code section. This subsection shall not apply to any dealer unless during the previous fiscal year the dealer's monthly payments exceeded $2,500.00 per month for three consecutive months or more.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 260,§ 7, eff. 5/6/2013.
