# § 40-16-4. Duties of commissioner; compensation of department employees

(a) The commissioner shall establish such units within the department as he or she deems proper for its administration and shall designate persons to be directors and assistant directors of such units to exercise such authority as he or she may delegate to them in writing.
(b) The commissioner shall have the authority to employ as many persons as he or she deems necessary for the administration of the department and for the discharge of the duties of his or her office. He or she shall issue all necessary directions, instructions, orders, and rules applicable to such persons. He or she shall have authority, as he or she deems proper, to employ, assign, compensate, and discharge employees of the department within the limitations of the department's appropriation and the restrictions set forth by law.
(c) All employees of the department shall be compensated upon a fixed salary basis and no person shall be compensated for services to the department on a commission or contingent fee basis.
(d) Neither the commissioner nor any officer or employee of the department shall be given or receive any fee, compensation, loan, gift, or other thing of value in addition to the compensation and expense allowance provided by law for any service or pretended service either rendered or to be rendered as commissioner or as an officer or employee of the department.
(e)
  (1) The commissioner shall have the authority to appoint and employ 30 investigators who shall be certified peace officers pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 8 of Title 35, the "Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Act."
  (2) The investigators of the department shall have jurisdiction throughout this state with such duties and powers as are prescribed by law.
(f) The department shall have the authority to contract and make cooperative and rental agreements with the United States government; any county, municipality, or local government, or any combination thereof; any public or private corporation or firm; or any public authority, agency, commission, or institution, including agencies of state government, for the purpose of obtaining goods, materials, and services needed to perform any of the duties, responsibilities, or functions vested in the department.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 633,§ 26, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 44,§ 7, eff. 1/1/2008.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2005.
