# § 40-16-3. Board of Driver Services; commissioner

(a) The department shall be under the direction, control, and management of the Board of Driver Services and the commissioner of driver services. The commissioner shall be appointed by and serve at the pleasure of the board.
(b)
  (1) The Board of Driver Services shall be a successor to and continuation of the Board of Motor Vehicle Safety and shall consist of nine members. Five members shall be appointed by the Governor and their terms shall expire as follows: two members on June 30, 2003, and June 30 of each sixth year thereafter; two members on June 30, 2005, and June 30 of each sixth year thereafter; and one member on June 30, 2007, and June 30 of each sixth year thereafter. Two members shall be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor and their terms shall expire as follows: one member on June 30, 2003, and June 30 of each sixth year thereafter and one member on June 30, 2006, and June 30 of each sixth year thereafter. Two members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House and their terms shall expire as follows: one member on June 30, 2003, and June 30 of each sixth year thereafter and one member on June 30, 2006, and June 30 of each sixth year thereafter. All members except for the initial appointees shall serve for terms of six years and until their successors are appointed and qualified.
  (2) All members serving on the Board of Motor Vehicle Safety as of May 2, 2005, shall continue to serve as members of the Board of Driver Services for the remainder of their original terms of office and shall if necessary hold over beyond the end of those terms until successors are appointed and qualified.
(c) The Governor shall designate a member to serve as chairperson of the board. The chairperson's term as chairperson shall expire on June 30, 2003, and June 30 of each second year thereafter. The board may elect other officers from among its membership and may establish bylaws for the conduct of its business.
(d) The members of the board shall receive no salary for their service on the board but any member who is not otherwise a state officer or employee shall receive a per diem expense allowance as provided in subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21.
(e) The board shall be the general policy-making body for the Department of Driver Services; and the commissioner shall be the chief executive officer of the department, subject to the policies established by the board. All rules and regulations promulgated by the commissioner must be approved by the board before they take effect.
(f) The commissioner shall receive an annual salary to be set by the board which shall be his or her total compensation for services as commissioner. The commissioner shall be reimbursed for all actual and necessary expenses incurred by him or her in carrying out his or her official duties.
(g) The commissioner shall take and subscribe before the board an oath to discharge faithfully and impartially the duties of such office, which oath shall be in addition to the oath required of all civil officers.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 40, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 837, § 1, eff. 5/13/2002.
