# § 33-1-9.1. Crimes of staging a collision or filing a fraudulent claim; penalty

(a) A person shall be guilty of the crime of staging a collision when, with intent to commit insurance fraud as defined in Code Section 33-1-9, such person does any of the following:
  (1) Intentionally causes or attempts to cause a motor vehicle collision; or
  (2) Engages in a scheme to fabricate evidence of a motor vehicle collision that did not occur. Staging a collision shall constitute a felony punishable by no less than one year nor more than five years' imprisonment.
(b) A person shall be guilty of the crime of aggravated staging of a collision when, with intent to commit insurance fraud as defined in Code Section 33-1-9, such person commits acts in violation of subsection (a) of this Code section which result in serious personal injury to another. Aggravated staging of a collision shall constitute a felony punishable by no less than two years nor more than ten years' imprisonment.
(c) A person shall be guilty of the crime of making a fraudulent claim related to a staged collision when such person makes, or assists in making, a claim for insurance benefits of any type or brings, or assists in bringing, a civil lawsuit against another seeking monetary damages with knowledge that the injuries for which insurance benefits or monetary damages are sought resulted from a staged collision, or seeks to obtain any benefit to which such claimant is not legally entitled. Making a fraudulent claim related to a staged collision shall constitute a felony and shall be punishable by no less than one year nor more than five years' imprisonment.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 33, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 33, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 40,§ 1, eff. 4/25/2019.
