# § 33-1-21. Certain subscription agreements for prepaid air ambulance service not contract of insurance; definitions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Air ambulance" means any rotary-wing aircraft used or intended to be used for hire for transportation of sick or injured persons who may need medical attention during transport.
  (2) "Air ambulance service" means the for hire providing of emergency care and transportation by means of an air ambulance for an injured or sick person to or from a place where medical or hospital care is furnished.
  (3) "Membership fees" means amounts collected by a membership provider as consideration for a membership subscription.
  (4) "Membership provider" means an entity that is licensed to provide air ambulance services pursuant to Chapter 11 of Title 31.
  (5) "Membership subscription" means an agreement where a membership provider's charges to a subscription member for air ambulance services are discounted or are prepaid, but only for charges that are not otherwise covered by a third party.
  (6) "Subscription member" means an individual who is the beneficiary of a membership subscription.
(b)
  (1) The solicitation of membership subscriptions, the acceptance of applications for membership subscriptions, the charging of membership fees, and the furnishing of prepaid or discounted air ambulance service to subscription members by a membership provider shall not constitute the writing of insurance.
  (2) A membership subscription shall not constitute a contract of insurance.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 33, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 86,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
