# § 33-1-24. Insurance requirements for transportation network companies and their drivers

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Personal vehicle" means a registered motor vehicle that is used by a transportation network company driver in connection with providing services for a transportation network company.
  (2) "Transportation network company" means a corporation, partnership, sole proprietorship, or other entity that uses a digital network or other means to connect customers to transportation network company drivers for the purposes of providing transportation for compensation, including, but not limited to, payment, donation, or other item of value. The term shall not include emergency or nonemergency medical transports.
  (3) "Transportation network company customer" or "customer" means an individual who uses a transportation network company to connect with a driver to obtain services in such driver's personal vehicle, from an agreed upon point of departure to an agreed upon destination.
  (4) "Transportation network company driver" or "driver" means an individual who uses or permits to be used his or her personal vehicle to provide transportation network company services. Such driver need not be an employee of a transportation network company.
  (5) "Transportation network company services" or "services" means:
    (A) The period of time a driver is logged on to the transportation network company's digital network and available to accept a ride request until the driver is logged off, except for that time period described in subparagraph (B) of this paragraph; and
    (B) The period of time a driver accepts a ride request on the transportation network company's digital network until the driver completes the transaction or the ride is complete, whichever is later. Transportation network company services shall not include transportation provided using a taxi, a limousine carrier as defined in Code Section 40-1-151, or any other commercially registered motor vehicle and commercially licensed driver.
(b) A transportation network company shall maintain or cause to be maintained a primary motor vehicle insurance policy that:
  (1) Recognizes the driver as a transportation network company driver and explicitly covers the driver's provision of transportation network company services as defined in paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of this Code section;
  (2) During the time period defined in subparagraph (a)(5)(A) of this Code section, provides a minimum of $100,000.00 for bodily injuries to or death of all persons in any one accident with a maximum of $50,000.00 for bodily injuries to or death of one person and $50,000.00 for loss of or damage to property of others, excluding cargo, in any one accident; and
  (3) During the time period defined in subparagraph (a)(5)(B) of this Code section, provides a minimum of $1 million for death, personal injury, and property damage per occurrence and provides uninsured and underinsured motorist coverage as required by Code Section 33-7-11, with minimum limits of $300,000.00 for bodily injuries to or death of all persons in any one accident with a maximum of $100,000.00 for bodily injuries to or death of one person and $25,000.00 for loss of or damage to property of others, excluding cargo, in any one accident.
(c) The requirements of subsection (b) of this Code section may be satisfied by either:
  (1) A commercial motor vehicle insurance policy purchased by the transportation network company or the driver that provides coverage that meets the requirements set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section; or
  (2) An insurance rider to, an endorsement of, or an express provision of coverage for transportation network company services within the driver's personal private passenger motor vehicle insurance policy required by Code Section 40-9-34 which may be combined with an excess policy provided by the transportation network company to meet the requirements set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(d) A transportation network company that purchases an insurance policy to satisfy any of the requirements under subsection (b) of this Code section shall provide the insurance policy to the Commissioner.
(e) An insurance policy required by subsection (b) of this Code section shall be placed with an insurer licensed under this title or with a surplus lines insurer eligible under Chapter 23 of this title.
(f) To the extent the coverage requirements in subsection (b) of this Code section are met by a driver, then such driver shall submit verification of such coverage to the transportation network company. In the event that the insurance maintained by a driver to fulfill the requirements of subsection (b) of this Code section has lapsed or ceases to exist, then the transportation network company shall provide coverage which shall become primary beginning with the first dollar of a claim.
(g)
  (1) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require a personal vehicle insurance policy to provide primary or excess coverage for transportation network company services.
  (2) Insurers that write motor vehicle insurance policies in this state may exclude any and all coverage afforded under the owner's insurance policy for any loss or injury that occurs while a driver is logged on to a transportation network company's digital network or while a driver provides transportation network company services. Notwithstanding any other law, a personal vehicle insurer may, at its discretion, offer a personal vehicle insurance policy, or an amendment or endorsement to an existing policy, that covers a driver's vehicle while being used for transportation network company services during the time period specified in this paragraph, with or without a separate charge, or the policy contains an amendment or an endorsement to provide such coverage, for which a separately stated premium may be charged.
(h) The transportation network company shall comply with the following requirements for each driver:
  (1) The driver shall be provided a disclosure from the transportation network company containing:
    (A) All information and documentation required for compliance with Code Section 40-6-10 if the transportation network company provides any insurance policy required by subsection (b) of this Code section;
    (B) Notice that the driver's personal vehicle insurance policy may exclude any and all coverage for injuries to the driver and to others and may exclude the duty to defend or indemnify any person or organization for liability for any loss or injury that occurs while providing transportation network company services; and
    (C) Notice that the driver's personal vehicle insurance policy may exclude coverage for damage to the personal vehicle, medical payments coverage, uninsured and underinsured motorist coverage, and other first-party claims;
  (2) Such transportation network company shall make the following disclosure to a driver in the driver's terms of service: "If the vehicle with which you provide transportation network company services has a lien against it, you must notify the lienholder that you provide transportation network company services with such vehicle. Providing such transportation network company services may violate the terms of your contract with the lienholder.";
  (3) The transportation network company shall include the disclosures required by this subsection in the driver's terms of service in a distinctive clause; and
  (4) For purposes of claims coverage investigation and upon request of the transportation network company driver's personal vehicle insurer, the transportation network company shall provide, within 15 days of such insurer's request, the date and times at which an accident occurred that involved a transportation network company driver and the precise times in the 12 hours preceding and following the accident that the driver logged on and off the transportation network company network or application or otherwise signified availability to provide transportation network company services. Coverage under a motor vehicle insurance policy maintained by the transportation network company shall not be dependent on a personal vehicle insurer first denying a claim nor shall a personal vehicle insurance policy be required to first deny a claim.
(i) In the event the transportation network company is providing primary insurance coverage under subsection (b) of this Code section, the transportation network company's insurer shall assume the costs of defense and indemnification. The transportation network company shall notify the driver and the driver's insurer of any dispute concerning primary coverage within 25 business days of receiving notice of the accident that gives rise to such claim. A personal vehicle insurer that defends or indemnifies a claim against a driver that is excluded under the terms of its policy shall have a right of contribution against other insurers that provide motor vehicle insurance to the same driver in satisfaction of the coverage requirements of this Code section at the time of loss.
(j) In the event the transportation network company is providing primary insurance coverage under subsection (b) of this Code section and the driver or the driver's insurer is named as a defendant in a civil action for any loss or injury that occurs while a personal vehicle is available to provide transportation network company services, the transportation network company's insurer shall have the duty to defend and indemnify the driver and the driver's insurer.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 70,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to causes of action accruing on or after 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 33, eff. 5/3/2016.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 196,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2016.
