# § 24-4-412. Complainant's past sexual behavior not admissible in prosecutions for certain sexual offenses; exceptions

(a) In any prosecution for rape in violation of Code Section 16-6-1; aggravated assault with the intent to rape in violation of Code Section 16-5-21; trafficking persons for labor servitude or sexual servitude in violation of Code Section 16-5-46; aggravated sodomy or sodomy in violation of Code Section 16-6-2; statutory rape in violation of Code Section 16-6-3; aggravated child molestation or child molestation in violation of Code Section 16-6-4; keeping a place of prostitution in violation of Code Section 16-6-10; pimping in violation of Code Section 16-6-11; pandering in violation of Code Section 16-6-12; incest in violation of Code Section 16-6-22; sexual battery in violation of Code Section 16-6-22.1; or aggravated sexual battery in violation of Code Section 16-6-22.2, evidence relating to the past sexual behavior of the complaining witness shall not be admissible, either as direct evidence or on cross-examination of the complaining witness or other witnesses, except as provided in this Code section. For the purposes of this Code section, evidence of past sexual behavior includes, but is not limited to, evidence of the complaining witness's marital history, mode of dress, general reputation for promiscuity, nonchastity, or sexual mores contrary to the community standards.
(b) In any prosecution for rape in violation of Code Section 16-6-1; aggravated assault with the intent to rape in violation of Code Section 16-5-21; trafficking persons for labor servitude or sexual servitude in violation of Code Section 16-5-46; aggravated sodomy or sodomy in violation of Code Section 16-6-2; statutory rape in violation of Code Section 16-6-3; aggravated child molestation or child molestation in violation of Code Section 16-6-4; keeping a place of prostitution in violation of Code Section 16-6-10; pimping in violation of Code Section 16-6-11; pandering in violation of Code Section 16-6-12; incest in violation of Code Section 16-6-22; sexual battery in violation of Code Section 16-6-22.1; or aggravated sexual battery in violation of Code Section 16-6-22.2, the court may admit the following evidence relating to the past sexual behavior of the complaining witness, following the procedure described in subsection (c) of this Code section:
  (1) Evidence of specific instances of a victim's or complaining witness's sexual behavior, if offered to prove that someone other than the defendant was the source of semen, injury, or other physical evidence;
  (2) Evidence of specific instances of a victim's or complaining witness's sexual behavior with respect to the defendant if it supports an inference that the accused could have reasonably believed that the complaining witness consented to the conduct complained of in the prosecution;
  (3) Evidence of specific instances of a victim's or complaining witness's sexual behavior with respect to the defendant or another person if offered by the prosecutor; and
  (4) Evidence whose exclusion would violate the defendant's constitutional rights.
(c) The procedure for introducing evidence as described in subsection (b) of this Code section shall be as follows:
  (1) If a party intends to offer evidence under subsection (b) of this Code section, the party must:
    (A) File a motion that specifically describes the evidence and states the purpose for which it is to be offered; and
    (B) Do so at least three days before trial unless the court, for good cause, sets a different date; and
  (2) Before admitting the evidence under this Code section, the court shall conduct an in camera hearing to examine the merits of the motion.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 24, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 31,§ 5, eff. 4/18/2019.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2013.
