# § 11-3-503. Notice of dishonor

(a) The obligation of an indorser stated in subsection (a) of Code Section 11-3-415 and the obligation of a drawer stated in subsection (d) of Code Section 11-3-414 may not be enforced unless (i) the indorser or drawer is given notice of dishonor of the instrument complying with this Code section; or (ii) notice of dishonor is excused under subsection (b) of Code Section 11-3-504.
(b) Notice of dishonor may be given by any person. Notice of dishonor may be given by any commercially reasonable means, including an oral, written, or electronic communication. Notice of dishonor is sufficient if it reasonably identifies the instrument and indicates that the instrument has been dishonored or has not been paid or accepted. Return of an instrument given to a bank for collection is sufficient notice of dishonor. Upon request of any party to the instrument, the drawee shall provide a statement to the requesting party giving the specific reason for dishonor, and the drawee shall have no additional liability to the drawer as a result of such statement.
(c) Subject to subsection (c) of Code Section 11-3-504, with respect to an instrument taken for collection by a collecting bank, notice of dishonor must be given (i) by the bank before midnight of the next banking day following the banking day on which the bank receives notice of dishonor of the instrument; or (ii) by any other person within 30 days following the day on which the person receives notice of dishonor. With respect to any other instrument, notice of dishonor must be given within 30 days following the day on which dishonor occurs.
