# § 42-4-7. Maintenance of inmate records; earned time allowances

(a) The sheriff shall keep a record of all persons committed to the jail of the county of which he or she is sheriff. This record shall contain the name of the person committed, such person's age, sex, race, under what process such person was committed and from what court the process issued, the crime with which the person was charged, the date of such person's commitment to jail, the day of such person's discharge, under what order such person was discharged, and the court from which the order issued. This record shall be subject to examination by any person in accordance with the provisions of Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, relating to the inspection of public records.
(b)
  (1) The sheriff, chief jailer, warden, or other officer designated by the county as custodian of inmates confined as county inmates for probation violations of felony offenses or as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 17-10-3 may award earned time allowances to such inmates based on institutional behavior. Earned time allowances shall not be awarded which exceed one-half of the period of confinement imposed, except that the sheriff or other custodian may authorize the award of not more than four days' credit for each day on which an inmate does work on an authorized work detail; provided, however, that such increased credit for performance on a work detail shall not apply to an inmate who is incarcerated for:
    (A) A second or subsequent offense of driving under the influence under Code Section 40-6-391 within a five-year period of time, as measured from the date of any previous arrest for which a conviction was obtained or a plea of nolo contendere was accepted to the date of the current arrest for which a conviction is obtained or a plea of nolo contendere is accepted;
    (B) A misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature; or
    (C) A crime committed against a family member as defined in Code Section 19-13-1.
  (2) While an inmate sentenced to confinement as a county inmate is in custody as a county inmate, the custodian of such inmate may award an earned time allowance consistent with this subsection and subsection (b) of Code Section 17-10-4 based on the institutional behavior of such inmate while in custody as a county inmate.
  (3) An inmate sentenced to confinement as a county inmate shall be released at the expiration of his or her sentence less the time deducted for earned time allowances.
(c) Commencing January 1, 1984, those provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section which provide for good-time allowances to be awarded to inmates sentenced to confinement as county inmates as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 17-10-3 shall apply to all such inmates in confinement on December 31, 1983, and all inmates who commit crimes on or after January 1, 1984, and are subsequently convicted and sentenced to confinement as county inmates. Conversion of the computation of the sentences of county inmates in confinement on December 31, 1983, from earned time governed sentences to good-time governed sentences shall be made by the sheriff or other custodian of such inmates. Commencing July 1, 1994, those provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section which provide for good-time allowances to be awarded to inmates sentenced to confinement as county inmates for probation violations of felony offenses shall apply to all such inmates in confinement on June 30, 1994, and all inmates whose probation is revoked or who commit crimes on or after July 1, 1994, and are subsequently sentenced to confinement as county inmates. Commencing July 1, 2000, the award of earned time allowances pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section for persons who commit crimes on or after July 1, 2000, and are subsequently convicted and sentenced to confinement as county inmates and inmates whose probation is revoked on or after July 1, 2000, or who commit crimes on or after July 1, 2000, and are subsequently sentenced to confinement as county inmates is not automatic or mandatory but shall be based upon institutional behavior.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 457, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
