# § 42-4-93. Creation of authorities; exemption from Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act

(a) Any two or more counties may jointly form an authority, to be known as the county regional jail authority for such counties. Any two or more municipalities within the same county may jointly form an authority, to be known as the municipal regional jail authority for such municipalities. Municipalities located in more than one county may participate in municipal regional jail authorities in each county in which the municipality is located. No authority shall transact any business or exercise any powers under this article until the governing authorities of the counties or municipalities involved declare, by ordinance or resolution, that there is a need for an authority to function and until the governing authorities authorize the chief elected official of each county or municipality to enter into an agreement with the other counties or municipalities participating in the authority for the activation of an authority and such agreement is executed. Such authorities shall be public bodies, corporate and politic, and instrumentalities of the State of Georgia. A copy of the ordinance or resolution and agreement among participant counties or participant municipalities shall be filed with the Secretary of State who shall maintain a record of all authority activities under this article.
(b) No county may be included in an authority without approval of the sheriff of the participant county.
(c) Article 2 of Chapter 17 of Title 50, the "Georgia State Financing and Investment Commission Act," shall not apply to any authority created under this Code section.
