# § 42-4-95. Management committee of county regional jail authority; management and operation of municipal regional jail authority

(a) The jail of a county regional jail authority shall be managed and operated by a regional jail authority management committee composed of all of the sheriffs from the participant counties. The county regional jail authority management committee shall have all of the responsibilities provided in Code Section 15-16-24 and this chapter, including the employment and supervision of all personnel employed to operate the jail. The sheriffs shall elect one of their members as chairperson and another as vice chairperson and shall also elect a secretary who may or may not be a member of the committee. The committee shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. The committee may delegate to one or more of the officers, agents, and employees of the committee such powers and duties as may be deemed necessary and proper.
(b) In the event that the county regional jail authority consists of an even number of counties, the sheriffs shall then elect one member, who may or may not be a member of the authority's board of directors, to serve on the management committee.
(c) The board of directors of a municipal regional jail authority shall hire or contract with a person, firm, corporation, or local government to manage and operate the regional jail. Such person, firm, corporation, or local government shall have all of the responsibilities provided in this chapter for municipal jails and jailers, including the employment and supervision of all personnel employed to operate the jail.
