# § 42-4-4. Duties of sheriff as to jail inmates

(a) It shall be the duty of the sheriff:
  (1) To take from the outgoing sheriff custody of the jail and the bodies of such persons as are confined therein, along with the warrant or cause of commitment;
  (2) To furnish persons confined in the jail with medical aid, heat, and blankets, to be reimbursed if necessary from the county treasury, for neglect of which he shall be liable to suffer the penalty prescribed in this Code section; provided, however, that, with respect to an inmate covered under Article 3 of this chapter, the officer in charge will provide such person access to medical aid and may arrange for the person's health insurance carrier to pay the health care provider for the aid rendered; and
  (3) To take all persons arrested or in execution under any criminal or civil process to the jail of an adjoining county, or to the jail of some other county if the latter is more accessible, if the jail of his county is in an unsafe condition, under such rules as are prescribed in this chapter.
(b) Subject to the provisions of this subsection and except as provided by law or as directed by a court of competent jurisdiction, a sheriff shall not release a prisoner from his custody prior to the lawful completion of his sentence including any lawful credits under a trusty system. The provision shall not, however, preclude a sheriff from designating an inmate as a trusty and utilizing him in a lawful manner and, furthermore, this provision shall not preclude a sheriff from transferring a prisoner to another jail in another county if the sheriff concludes that such transfer is in the best interest of the prisoner or that such transfer is necessary for the orderly administration of the jail.
(c) Any sheriff or deputy who fails to comply with this Code section shall be fined for contempt, as is the clerk of the superior court in similar cases. The sheriff or deputy shall also be subject to removal from office as prescribed in Code Section 15-16-26.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 599,§ II-2-10, eff. 7/1/2012.
