# § 42-4-15. Limitations on medical charges for providing emergency medical care services to individuals in custody

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Detainee" means a person held in a detention facility who is charged with or convicted of a criminal offense or charged with or adjudicated for a delinquent act and a person detained, arrested, or otherwise held in lawful custody for a criminal offense or delinquent act.
  (2) "Detention facility" means any municipal or county jail or other facility used for the detention of persons charged with or convicted of a criminal offense or charged with or adjudicated for a delinquent act.
  (3) "Emergency health care" means bona fide emergency services provided after the onset of a medical or traumatic condition manifesting itself by acute symptoms of sufficient severity such that the absence of immediate medical attention could reasonably be expected to result in placing the person's health in serious jeopardy, serious impairment to bodily functions, or serious dysfunction of any bodily organ or part. The term covers any form of emergency medical treatment, including dental, optical, psychological, or other types of emergency conditions.
  (4) "Follow-up health care" means medical and hospital care and medication administered in conjunction with and arising from emergency health care treatment.
(b) A hospital or other health care facility licensed or established pursuant to Chapter 7 of Title 31 which is not a party to an emergency health care services contract with a sheriff or a governing authority or its agent on July 1, 2011, shall be reimbursed no more than the applicable Georgia Medicaid rate for emergency health care and follow-up health care services provided to a detainee.
(c) No hospital or other health care facility shall discharge a detainee with an emergency health care condition so as to require an immediate transfer to another medical provider for the same condition unless the reasonable standard of care requires such a transfer.
(d) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to limit reimbursements for emergency health care services when insurance coverage is available for payment for such services. Nor shall this Code section be construed so as to limit or remove responsibility for payment of emergency health care services by a provider of insurance that is otherwise responsible for payment of part or all of such services.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall prohibit the governing authority from negotiating higher fees or rates with hospitals.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 109,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2011.
