# § 42-4-92. Definitions

(1) "Authority" means each public body corporate and politic created pursuant to this article.
(2) "Cost of project" means all costs of site preparation and other start-up costs; all costs of construction; all costs of real and personal property required for the purposes of the jail facilities related thereto, including land and any rights or undivided interest therein, easements, franchises, fees, permits, approvals, licenses, and certificates and the securing of such permits, approvals, licenses, and certificates and all machinery and equipment, including motor vehicles which are used for jail functions; financing charges and interest prior to and during construction and during such additional period as the authority may reasonably determine to be necessary for the placing of the jail in operation; costs of engineering, architectural, and legal services; cost of plans and specifications and all expenses necessary or incident to determining the feasibility or practicability of the jail; administrative expenses; and such other expenses as may be necessary or incidental to the financing authorized in this article. The costs of any jail may also include funds for the creation of a debt service reserve, a renewal and replacement reserve, and such other reserves as may be reasonably required by the authority for the operation of any jail and as may be authorized by any bond resolution or trust agreement or indenture pursuant to the provisions of which the issuance of any such bonds may be authorized. Any obligation or expense incurred for any of the foregoing purposes shall be regarded as a part of the costs of the jail and may be paid or reimbursed as such out of the proceeds of user fees, or revenue bonds or notes issued under this article for such jail, or from other revenues obtained by the authority.
(3) "County" means any county of this state or governmental entity formed by the consolidation of a county and one or more municipal corporations.
(4) "County regional jail authority" means a regional jail authority formed by counties pursuant to this article.
(5) "Governing body" means the elected or duly appointed officials constituting the governing body of each county in the state.
(6) "Management committee" means a regional jail authority management committee created pursuant to Code Section 42-4-95.
(7) "Municipal regional jail authority" means a regional jail authority formed by municipalities within the same county pursuant to this article.
(8) "Municipality" means any municipal corporation of this state.
(9) "Project" means a jail and all other structures including electric, gas, water, and other utilities and facilities, equipment, personal property, and vehicles which are deemed by the authority as necessary and convenient for the operation of the jail.
