# § 42-4-31. Required safety and security measures

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person having charge of or responsibility for any detention facility to incarcerate any person in the detention facility unless a full-time jailer is on duty at the detention facility at all times while a person is incarcerated therein. For purposes of this Code section, a full-time dispatcher may also serve simultaneously as a full-time jailer in the case of:
  (1) A municipal detention facility with 12 or fewer inmates incarcerated therein if such dispatcher either:
    (A) Is equipped with mobile telephone and radio equipment which will allow such dispatcher to perform the duties of a dispatcher and the duties of a full-time jailer at the same time; or
    (B) Is provided with temporary assistance or relief from the duties of a dispatcher while performing the duties of a jailer; or
  (2) A municipal detention facility of a municipal corporation having a population of 6,000 or less if such dispatcher is certified both as a jailer and a dispatcher by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council.
(b) If the local governing authority having jurisdiction over a detention facility has knowledge that the facility is operating without a full-time jailer on duty while persons are incarcerated therein, each member of the local governing authority having such knowledge and failing to attempt to correct the deficiency shall be in violation of this article.
(c) The officer in charge of a detention facility shall have the facility inspected semiannually by an officer from the state fire marshal's office or an officer selected by the Safety Fire Commissioner. Each detention facility shall be required to comply with this article with regard to fire safety and the applicable rules and regulations promulgated by the Safety Fire Commissioner. The inspecting officer shall fill out a form provided by the officer in charge and the form shall be posted in a conspicuous place by the officer in charge, thereby evidencing inspection of the facility.
(d) There shall be at least two separate keys for all locks at a detention facility, with one set in use and all duplicate keys safely stored under the control of a jailer or other administrative employee for emergency use. All security personnel must be familiar with the locking system of the detention facility and must be able immediately to release inmates in the event of a fire or other emergency. Regular locking and unlocking of door and fire escape locks shall be made to determine if they are in good working order. Any damaged or nonfunctioning security equipment shall be promptly repaired.
