# § 42-4-6. Confinement and care of tubercular inmates; crediting of time spent in hospital or institution against sentence

(a) When any person confined in the common jail who is awaiting trial for any offense against the penal laws of this state or who has been convicted of an offense or who is serving any jail sentence imposed upon him by authority or who has been committed for any civil or criminal contempt or who is serving any misdemeanor sentence under county jurisdiction in a county correctional institution or other institution for the maintenance of county inmates is afflicted with tuberculosis, the judge of the superior court may order the person's delivery by the sheriff to an institution as may be approved and supported by the Department of Public Health for the care of tubercular patients; thereupon, he shall be so delivered and received in such institution and shall be securely confined, kept, and cared for.
(b) The period of time a person is kept and confined in a hospital or institution pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall be credited upon any jail sentence being served by him, in the same manner as though he had remained in jail. Any person committed for any civil or criminal contempt shall remain for all purposes under the orders, jurisdiction, and authority of the court committing him for contempt while in the hospital or institution, in the same manner as though he had remained in the common jail.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
