# § 42-4-94. Board of directors; members; election of officers; expenses; duties; addition of counties or municipalities to authority

(a) Control and management of the authority shall be vested in a board of directors. Each county participating in an authority shall appoint the sheriff of the county for the term of such sheriff's office. One other member from each participating county shall be appointed for a four-year term. Each municipality participating in an authority shall appoint two people to serve on the board of directors, each for a four-year term. For each county or municipal regional jail authority board of directors, an additional member shall be appointed by the directors themselves. The directors shall elect one of their members as chairperson and another as vice chairperson and shall also elect a secretary and a treasurer or a secretary-treasurer, either of whom may, but need not be, a director. The directors shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. The directors may make bylaws and regulations for the governing of the authority and may delegate to one or more of the officers, agents, and employees of the authority such powers and duties as may be deemed necessary and proper.
(b) It is the duty of the board of directors to erect or repair, when necessary, the jail and to furnish the jail with all the furniture necessary for the different rooms, offices, and cells. The jail shall be erected and kept in order and repaired at the expense of the authority under the direction of the board of directors which is authorized to make all necessary contracts for that purpose. The board of directors shall pass an annual budget sufficient for the efficient and effective operation of the jail.
(c) Members of the board of directors of an authority formed pursuant to this Code section may agree that additional counties, if a county regional jail authority, or additional municipalities, if a municipal regional jail authority, may become members of such authority subsequent to its formation upon an affirmative vote of two-thirds of the members of such board of directors under such terms as may be imposed by such two-thirds of the members of such board of directors.
