# § 52-5-8. Manner of payment for stock; auction sale of stock upon default by subscriber; giving delinquent subscriber notice of auction sale

The directors may require the subscribers to the capital stock to pay the amounts variously subscribed by them in such installments as they may deem proper. The directors may receive cash or property, real or personal, at the agreed value thereof in the payment of such installments. If any subscriber shall neglect to pay any installments as required by resolution of the board of directors, the directors may direct an action to be brought against him forthwith for the amount of the call. Alternatively, after 30 days' notice to the stockholder, the board of directors may, in its discretion, cause his stock to be sold at auction to the highest bidder for cash. Any deficiency in the sum thus realized necessary to make the amount of the call shall be made good by the delinquent. Any surplus over the amount of the call and the expenses of the sale shall be paid over to him. A certificate of stock shall be issued to the purchaser and he shall stand in the same relation to the company as the delinquent would have, had he not so made default. Such sale shall be in the city or other place where the principal office of the company is located, at such time and place as the directors may prescribe. If for any reason it is not practicable to serve the delinquent stockholder with notice of the sale, personally or by mail, or if he is a nonresident of this state, then notice may be given him of the sale by publication in the newspaper in which sheriff's advertisements are published in the county of its principal office, once a week for four weeks prior to the date of the sale.
