# § 43-12-2. Qualifications; proof of blindness or disability

(a) No person shall be entitled to an exemption from occupation taxes, administrative fees, or regulatory fees which would otherwise be required to peddle, conduct business, or practice the professions or semiprofessions under this chapter until it has been made to appear to the issuing authority that the person making application therefor is a resident of this state and that the income of such person is such that he or she is not liable for the payment of state income taxes.
(b) Blind persons must furnish satisfactory proof of their blindness to the issuing authority.
(c) A war veteran must furnish satisfactory proof that he or she has a physical disability which is disabling to the extent of 10 percent or more; that his or her service in the armed forces of the United States was terminated under conditions other than dishonorable; and that his or her service or some part thereof was rendered during a war period as defined by an act of the Congress of the United States, approved March 20, 1933, entitled "An Act to Maintain the Credit of the United States," and commonly known as Public Law No. 2, 73rd Congress; or that some part of his or her service was rendered on or after December 7, 1941, and before December 31, 1946; or that some part of his or her service was rendered on or after June 27, 1950, and before January 31, 1955; or that some part of his or her service was rendered on or after August 5, 1964, and before May 8, 1975. Proof of such 10 percent disability shall be established upon the written certificate of two physicians as to such disability, or by a letter or other written evidence from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Veterans Service stating the degree of disability, or by written evidence from the branch of the armed forces of the United States in which such veteran served.
(d) A veteran of peace-time service in the United States armed forces must furnish proof that he or she has a physical disability to the extent of 25 percent or more incurred in the line of duty during the period of such service by a letter or other evidence from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs or the Department of Veterans Service stating the degree of disability or by written evidence from the branch of the armed forces of the United States in which such veteran served and that his or her service in the armed forces of the United States was terminated under conditions other than dishonorable.

## History

Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 406,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
