# § 24-12-10. Definitions

(1) "Confidential or privileged" means the protection afforded by law from unauthorized disclosure, whether the protection is afforded by law as developed and applied by the courts, by statute or lawful regulations, or by the requirements of the Constitutions of the State of Georgia or the United States. The term "confidential or privileged" also includes protection afforded by law from compulsory process or testimony.
(2) "Disclosure" means the act of transmitting or communicating medical matter to a person who would not otherwise have access thereto.
(3) "Health care facility" means any institution or place in which health care is rendered to persons, which health care includes, but is not limited to, medical, psychiatric, acute, intermediate, rehabilitative, and long-term care.
(4) "Laws requiring disclosure" means laws and statutes of the State of Georgia and of the United States and lawful regulations issued by any department or agency of the State of Georgia or of the United States which require the review, analysis, or use of medical matter by persons not originally having authorized access thereto. The term "laws requiring disclosure" also includes any authorized practice of disclosure for purposes of evaluating claims for reimbursement for charges or expenses under any public or private reimbursement or insurance program.
(5) "Limited consent to disclosure" means proper authorization given by or on behalf of a person entitled to protection from disclosure of medical matter and given for a specific purpose related to such person's health or related to such person's application for insurance or like benefits.
(6) "Medical matter" means information respecting the medical or psychiatric condition, including without limitation the physical and the mental condition, of a natural person or persons, however recorded, obtained, or communicated.
(7) "Nurse" means a person authorized by license issued under Chapter 26 of Title 43 as a registered professional nurse or licensed practical nurse to practice nursing.
(8) "Physician" means any person lawfully licensed in this state to practice medicine and surgery pursuant to Chapter 34 of Title 43.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2013.
