# § 43-6-12. Reciprocity; nonresident license requirement; designation of agents for service of process

(a) Any resident of another state who holds a current license as an auctioneer under the laws of any other state having requirements similar to those in this chapter may, at the discretion of the commission, be issued a license to practice as an auctioneer in this state without written examination upon the payment of the fees as required by the commission.
(b) Any resident of another state which does not have a law regulating the licensing of auctioneers but who holds a current and valid license in a state which has a reciprocal licensing agreement with Georgia may, at the discretion of the commission, be issued a license to practice as an auctioneer in this state without examination upon the payment of a fee as required by the commission.
(c) Prior to the issuance of a license to a nonresident auctioneer, such nonresident shall file with the commission a designation in writing that appoints the commission or a deputy to be designated by it to act as the licensee's agent upon whom all judicial and other process or legal notices directed to such licensee may be served. Service upon the agent so designated shall be equivalent to personal service upon the licensee. Copies of such appointment, certified by the commission chairman, shall be deemed sufficient evidence thereof and shall be admitted in evidence with the same force and effect as the original thereof might be admitted. In such written designation, the licensee shall agree that any lawful process against the licensee which is served upon such agent shall be of the same legal force and validity as if served upon the licensee and that the authority shall continue in force so long as any liability remains outstanding in this state. Upon the receipt of all such process or notices, the commission or the deputy as designated by it shall immediately mail a copy of the same by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the last known business address of the licensee.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 535,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2014.
