# § 50-7-14. Tourist center near residence of state citizen elected President

(a) The Governor shall have authority to direct and provide for the construction of a tourist center on real property owned by or which may be acquired by the state within the general vicinity or area of the domestic residence of any citizen of this state when such citizen has been elected President of the United States and the Governor determines that the number of tourists and other persons visiting the area justifies the center.
(b) It shall be the duty of the Department of Economic Development or the Department of Natural Resources to construct, operate, and maintain any such tourist center assigned to such agency by the Governor and keep it supplied with such information, pamphlets, and other materials as will advertise and publicize the tourist attractions, natural resources, industry, history, and commerce of this state.
(c) The Department of Economic Development or the Department of Natural Resources is further authorized to provide space for other commercial or noncommercial projects in the center assigned to such agency and allow the persons to sell or provide such articles or services as may be prescribed in the lease, contract, franchise, or other arrangement, as determined by the Department of Economic Development or the Department of Natural Resources for the center assigned to such agency. The Department of Economic Development or the Department of Natural Resources shall regulate the sale or free distribution of such articles, merchandise, and services by other persons at the center assigned to such agency in the manner it deems to be in the best interest of promoting tourist trade in this state and otherwise furthering the purposes for which the center is created. The Department of Economic Development or the Department of Natural Resources is further authorized to install or provide for the installation of and to operate or provide for the operation of vending machines and to sell in such machines nonalcoholic beverages, snacks, candy, and other articles as determined by the Department of Economic Development or the Department of Natural Resources to be necessary or desirable for the traveling public at reasonable prices at the center assigned to such agency. The prices charged for these products will approximate the prevailing rate within the area for similar items so as not to compete unfairly with private enterprise, such prices to be set by the Department of Economic Development or the Department of Natural Resources for the center assigned to such agency.
(d) The Department of Economic Development or the Department of Natural Resources may also enter into contracts with other state, local, or federal agencies or with other persons to assist it in construction, operation, or maintenance of the center assigned to such agency. The Department of Economic Development or the Department of Natural Resources may acquire real and personal property for such purposes for the center assigned to such agency.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 382,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2020.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 35, eff. 7/1/2004.
