# § 50-7-70. Legislative findings; definitions; criteria and application process; fee; directional road signs; rules and regulations

(a) The General Assembly finds that:
  (1) Agricultural tourist attractions provide unique opportunities for tourists to enjoy Georgia's resources; and
  (2) Agricultural tourist attractions provide an impact on Georgia's economy and a substantial benefit to Georgia.
(b) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Agricultural tourist attraction" means any agricultural based business providing on-site attractions to tourists that meet the criteria set out by the Department of Agriculture.
  (2) "Department" means the Department of Agriculture.
  (3) "Directional signs" shall have the meaning provided in paragraph (4) of Code Section 32-6-71.
(c) The Department of Agriculture shall:
  (1) Develop criteria and an application process to determine what constitutes an agricultural tourist attraction; and
  (2) Maintain a registry of approved agricultural tourist attractions.
(d) Entities wishing to be recognized by the department as an agricultural tourist attraction shall submit an application to the department with a one-time application fee of not less than $300.00.
(e) Upon approval by the department as an agricultural tourist attraction and at the request of the applicant, the department shall, in conjunction with the Department of Transportation, take the appropriate steps to place directional signs along roads in the direct proximity of the agricultural tourist attraction to direct passing traffic to the agricultural tourist attraction.
(f) The department and the Department of Transportation shall create rules and regulations for the purpose of implementing this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-92, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 50, eff. 4/14/2009.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 467,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
