# § 50-7-51. Authority and duties of department and local government; purposes of local government; lease of property

(a)
  (1) The department is authorized to acquire, construct, operate, maintain, expand, and improve a project for the purpose of promoting trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities within this state for the public good and general welfare and, without limitation of the foregoing, with the approval of the State Properties Commission, to acquire land for such purposes.
  (2) The department may pay the costs of such project from any lawful fund source available for the purpose, including without limitation, where applicable, funds received by appropriation, proceeds of general obligation debt, funds of local government, grants of the United States or any agency or instrumentality thereof, gifts, and otherwise.
  (3) The project shall be located in Chatham County, Georgia, and shall be known as the "Georgia International and Maritime Trade Center," except that any facility included within the project may be otherwise designated.
(b) A local government and the department are both authorized to contract with one another whereby local government may exercise on behalf of the department such future responsibility in connection with the construction, operation, management, and maintenance of the project as is now or may be vested in the department; and the department is authorized by such contract to delegate to the local government corresponding responsibilities and powers with respect to the project and to transfer to the local government any and all contracts, plans, documents, or other papers of said department relating to the project, as compensation to the local government under such contract. To the extent provided by such contract with the department, local government on behalf of the department shall acquire, plan, construct, erect, repair, remodel, maintain, add to, extend, improve, equip, operate, and manage the project.
(c) Without limiting the generality of any provision of this article, the general purpose of the local government is declared to be that of acquiring, constructing, equipping, maintaining, and operating the project, in whole or in part, directly or under contract with the department and engaging in such other activities as it deems appropriate to promote trade shows, conventions, and political, musical, educational, entertainment, recreational, athletic, or other events and related tourism within the state so as to promote the use of the project and the use of the industrial, maritime, agricultural, educational, historical, cultural, recreational, commercial, and natural resources of the State of Georgia by those using the project or visiting the state.
(d) The department shall have the authority with the approval of the State Properties Commission to lease any improved or unimproved land or other property acquired by it under this Code section to local government for a term not to exceed 50 years but upon such other terms and conditions as the department may determine necessary or convenient. Any such lease may be for and in consideration of $1.00 annually for each calendar year or portion thereof paid in kind to and receipted for by the Office of the State Treasurer and in further consideration that such property be held, constructed, operated, maintained, expanded, or improved for the purposes for which the department was authorized to acquire such property. It is determined that such consideration is good and valuable and sufficient consideration for such lease and in the interest of the public welfare of the State of Georgia and its citizens.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
