# § 50-7-19. State-wide electric vehicle manufacturing program; Georgia Electric Vehicle Manufacturing Commission

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Commission" means the Georgia Electric Vehicle Manufacturing Commission created pursuant to this Code section.
  (2) "Department" means the Department of Economic Development.
  (3) "EV industry" means the commercial enterprise of manufacturing electric vehicles and related components within this state.
  (4) "Marketing" means promotion, advertising, signage, public relations, press relations, and branding; creation, use, and licensing of a trademark, copyright, and other intellectual property; providing discounts; and other activities of similar nature or within the term as it is commonly understood.
(b) The department shall be authorized to establish, implement, and support a state-wide electric vehicle manufacturing program for the promotion of electric vehicle and component manufacturing in this state. The program shall advance the state's interest in developing, marketing, promoting, or recruiting the growth of the EV industry through continued investment or job creation in this state. The carrying out of the purposes and program in this article are in all respects for the benefit of the people of this state and constitute a public purpose. Actions by the department pursuant to this article shall be an essential governmental function in the exercise of the powers conferred upon it by this article. Such program shall not consider, evaluate, or make recommendations relative to the sale, distribution, or servicing of electric vehicles.
(c) There is created the Georgia Electric Vehicle Manufacturing Commission, as a body corporate and politic and an instrumentality of the state, for the following public purposes and powers:
  (1) To formulate recommendations to the Governor and the General Assembly to support and expand the growth of electric vehicle and component manufacturing in this state through a state-wide electric vehicle manufacturing program;
  (2) To consult with private sector employers, primary and secondary schools, the University System of Georgia, the Technical College System of Georgia, and other entities to determine workforce needs for the EV industry and to make training recommendations to educational institutions and the General Assembly;
  (3) To advise the department in supporting and meeting infrastructure needs for the EV industry, including, but not limited to, transportation, charging networks, energy supply, manufacturing sites, and communications networks;
  (4) To develop, in consultation with the EV industry, such marketing materials and advertising as the commission finds useful to promote the continued growth of EV industry jobs in this state;
  (5) To provide for assessments of the state interest in and benefit from encouraging the growth of the EV industry in this state; and
  (6) The commission shall not consider, evaluate, or make recommendations relative to the sale, distribution, or servicing of electric vehicles.
(d)
  (1) The commission shall consist of:
    (A) The commissioner of economic development;
    (B) The director of planning for the Department of Transportation;
    (C) The commissioner of the Technical College System of Georgia;
    (D) The chancellor of the University System of Georgia;
    (E) One representative from each electric vehicle manufacturer that is manufacturing vehicles in this state, appointed by the Governor;
    (F) Two representatives of electric vehicle component manufacturers that are operating in this state, appointed by the Governor;
    (G) A representative of an investor owned utility company, appointed by the Governor;
    (H) A representative of a cooperative utility provider, appointed by the Governor;
    (I) A licensed franchise new motor vehicle dealer in this state, appointed by the Governor;
    (J) Two members of the House of Representatives to serve as ex officio members, appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives; and
    (K) Two members of the Senate to serve as ex officio members, appointed by the President of the Senate.
  (2) The commission shall elect a chairperson from among its membership. A majority of the commission shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of the majority shall be the acts of the commission.
  (3) Members of the commission who are state officials or employees shall receive no compensation for their service on the commission but may be reimbursed for expenses incurred by them in the performance of their duties as members of the commission. Any members of the commission who are not state officials or employees shall receive a daily expense allowance in the amount specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 45-7-21 for each day such member is in attendance at a meeting of the commission.
  (4) Members of the commission appointed pursuant to subparagraphs (A) through (D) of paragraph (1) of this subsection may designate persons to serve in their place. Members appointed pursuant to subparagraphs (E) through (I) of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall serve for terms of two years. Members appointed pursuant to subparagraphs (J) and (K) of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall serve for terms concurrent with their corresponding terms as members of the General Assembly.
(e) The commission is assigned to the department for administrative purposes only. The Attorney General shall be the attorney for the commission.
(f) The commissioner of economic development shall be authorized to promulgate any rules and regulations necessary to implement and administer the provisions of this Code section to further promote the marketing of this state to the EV industry for future investment. Rule making or actions undertaken pursuant to this Code section by the department shall be subject to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Administrative Procedure Act."
(g) Neither the commission nor the department shall issue any rule or regulation, take any action, or consider, evaluate, or make recommendations relative to the ownership, operation, or control of dealerships by manufacturers and franchisors pursuant to Code Section 10-1-664.1.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 357,§ 1-2, eff. 2/13/2024.
