# § 50-7-50. Definitions

(1) "Department" means the Department of Economic Development.
(2) "Local government" means, individually or in combination, the City of Savannah, Chatham County, or any development authority of either or both.
(3) "Project" means a comprehensive convention and trade center, suitable for multipurpose use for housing trade shows; conventions; cultural, political, musical, educational, entertainment, athletic, or other events; for displaying exhibits of Georgia's counties, municipalities, industries, and attractions; and for promoting the maritime, transportation, coastal, agricultural, historical, natural, and recreational resources of the State of Georgia, including all facilities necessary or convenient to such purpose, regardless of whether such facilities are contiguous, including, by way of illustration and not limitation, the following facilities: exhibit halls; auditoriums; theaters; restaurants and other facilities for the purveying of foods, beverages, publications, souvenirs, novelties, and goods and services of all kinds, whether operated or purveyed directly or indirectly through concessionaires, licensees or lessees, or otherwise; parking facilities and parking areas in connection therewith; meeting room facilities, including meeting rooms providing for simultaneous translation capabilities for several languages; related lands, buildings, structures, fixtures, equipment, and personalty appurtenant or convenient to the foregoing; and extension, addition, and improvement of such facilities.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 39, eff. 7/1/2004.
