# § 50-7-3. Board of Economic Development created

(a) The department shall be under the direction and supervision of a Board of Economic Development.
(b) On and after July 1, 1999, the Board of Economic Development shall consist of one member from each congressional district in the state and nine additional members from the state at large. All members shall be appointed by the Governor, subject to confirmation by the Senate. The initial terms of members shall be as follows: two members representative of congressional districts and two at-large members shall be appointed for a term ending July 1, 2000; two members representative of congressional districts and two at-large members shall be appointed for a term ending July 1, 2001; three members representative of congressional districts and one at-large member shall be appointed for a term ending July 1, 2002; two members representative of congressional districts and two at-large members shall be appointed for a term ending July 1, 2003; and two members representative of congressional districts and two at-large members shall be appointed for a term ending July 1, 2004. Thereafter, all members appointed to the board by the Governor shall be appointed for terms of five years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. In the event of a vacancy during the term of any member by reason of death, resignation, or otherwise, the appointment of a successor by the Governor shall be for the remainder of the unexpired term of such member.
(c) The first members appointed under this Code section shall be appointed for terms which begin July 1, 1999. The members of the Board of Economic Development serving on April 1, 1999, shall remain in office until their successors are appointed and qualified.
(d) In addition to all other powers granted to the Board of Economic Development under this chapter, the board may authorize the Department of Economic Development to enter into and carry out intergovernmental contracts and agreements for the purpose of providing financial and other assistance in carrying out projects or undertakings which will further the public purposes of development of trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities at the state and local levels. The board may authorize such contracts and agreements between the department and other departments, agencies, and entities of state government and may also authorize such contracts and agreements between the department and local development authorities. Any such contracts and agreements shall be awarded pursuant to criteria and procedures developed by the board. Such criteria and procedures shall be designed to effectuate those proposed contracts and agreements which will be most effective in furthering the public purpose of development of trade, commerce, industry, and employment opportunities at the state and local levels. Neither the development of such criteria nor the award of such contracts and agreements shall be subject to Chapter 5 of this title; Chapter 13 of this title; or Article 5 of Chapter 5 of Title 28. The board and the department may expend funds appropriated or otherwise available to the board and the department for the public purposes described in this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 31, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, eff. 4/18/2002.
