# § 50-7-80. Legislative findings; creation of "Made in Georgia" program

(a) The General Assembly finds that:
  (1) The State of Georgia substantially benefits from the consumption of goods and products manufactured in Georgia; and
  (2) The State of Georgia could further substantially benefit from creating public awareness of the importance of choosing Georgia's goods and products whenever possible.
(b) The Department of Economic Development shall create and implement a "Made in Georgia" program promoting goods and products manufactured in Georgia. This program shall:
  (1) Showcase and promote goods and products manufactured in Georgia;
  (2) Inform Georgians of the diverse manufacturing sector within this state; and
  (3) Provide educational outreach efforts to bring the science of manufacturing into the classroom and emphasize the significant contributions Georgia companies make to the economy and quality of life in Georgia.
(c) The Department of Economic Development shall create and maintain a website informing the public of Georgia manufacturers and their goods and products. All state governmental entities that maintain websites shall cooperate with the Department of Economic Development to include a link to the website created pursuant to this subsection, provided that the Department of Economic Development determines that such link is appropriate and is in the best interest of the state.
(d) Companies shall be required to manufacture a minimum of 50 percent of its product or good within the boundaries of the state of Georgia to qualify for inclusion to the provisions of this Code section.
(e) The Department of Economic Development may adopt any rules and regulations that it finds necessary to properly implement this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 158,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 475,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
