# § 50-7-16. Acquisition and conveyance of property by department

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Acquire" means the obtaining of a fee simple interest in real property by any method including, but not limited to, gift, purchase, condemnation, devise, court order, and exchange.
  (2) "Lease" means a written instrument under the terms and conditions of which one party out of its own estate grants and conveys to another party or parties an estate for years retaining a reversion in itself after such grant and conveyance.
  (3) "Person" means any individual; general or limited partnership; joint venture; firm; private, public, or public service corporation; association; authority; fiduciary; governmental body, instrumentality, or other organization of the state; county of the state; municipal corporation of the state; political subdivision of the state; governmental subdivision of the state; and any other legal entity doing business in the state.
  (4) "Project" means a facility to be used in conjunction with trade, commerce, industry, manufacturing, or tourism in the state.
  (5) "Rental agreement" means a written instrument the terms and conditions of which create the relationship of landlord and tenant. Under such relationship no estate passes out of the landlord and the tenant has only usufruct.
(b) The Department of Economic Development is authorized to acquire real property and to construct, operate, and maintain such projects as are beneficial to the development of industry, trade, and tourism and to create economic and employment opportunities in the state. The department is authorized, with the approval of the State Properties Commission, to enter into agreements to lease, rent, or convey the real property of any such project with any person in order to accomplish such goals and upon such other terms and conditions as the department may determine to be necessary or convenient for such substantial public benefit and such consideration as may be determined by the department to be fair and equitable to the state under all the circumstances in accordance with the provisions of Article III, Section VI, Paragraph VI of the Constitution of Georgia, relating to gratuities. Subject to such principles, any such lease or rental agreement may be for and in consideration of a minimum of $1.00 annually for each calendar year or portion thereof paid in kind to the Office of the State Treasurer and may arrange for the conveyance of such land for a fixed price, provided that such property be held, constructed, operated, maintained, expanded, or improved by the grantee and its successors and assigns consonant with the purposes of the project and other requirements of the department.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 567, § 2, eff. 5/12/2004.
