# § 50-7-64. Appointment of commission

(a)
  (1) The commission shall consist of 15 members to be appointed as follows:
    (A) The Governor shall appoint five members;
    (B) The President of the Senate shall appoint five members; and
    (C) The Speaker of the House of Representatives shall appoint five members.
  (2) Members shall serve for four-year terms and shall be eligible for reappointment; provided, however, that with respect to the initial appointments, each appointing authority provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection shall appoint two members for two-year terms, two members for three-year terms, and one member for a four-year term. The members shall be representative of all of the geographic areas of the state and shall be selected from the state at large with special consideration given to the appointment of persons associated with those groups or organizations with a demonstrated interest in Civil War history and the preservation of associated sites.
(b) All successors shall be appointed in the same manner as original appointments. Vacancies in office shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be for the unexpired term. The commission shall elect a chairperson and such other officers as it deems necessary. No vacancy on the commission shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all rights and perform all duties of the commission.
(c) The members of the commission shall receive a daily expense allowance and reimbursement for transportation costs as provided for in Code Section 45-7-21; and the members of the commission shall not receive any other compensation for their services as such.
(d) The commission shall file an annual report with the Governor and the General Assembly containing a summary of the accomplishments of the commission during the preceding year and the plans of the commission for the following year.
(e) No state funds shall be expended for the purposes of the commission unless specifically appropriated by the General Assembly.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 455,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2006.
