# § 53-13-20. Access to digital assets by conservator

(a) After an opportunity for a hearing under subsection (b) or (c) of Code Section 29-3-22 or under subsection (b) or (c) of Code Section 29-5-23, the court may grant a conservator access to the digital assets of a protected person.
(b) Unless otherwise ordered by the court or directed by the user, a custodian shall disclose to a conservator the catalogue of electronic communications sent or received by a protected person and any digital assets, other than the content of electronic communications, in which the protected person has a right or interest if the conservator gives the custodian:
  (1) A written request for disclosure in physical or electronic form;
  (2) A certified copy of the court order that gives the conservator authority over the digital assets of the protected person; and
  (3) If requested by the custodian:
    (A) A number, username, address, or other unique subscriber or account identifier assigned by the custodian to identify the account of the protected person; or
    (B) Evidence linking the account to the protected person.
(c) A conservator with general authority to manage the assets of a protected person may request that a custodian of the digital assets of the protected person suspend or terminate an account of the protected person for good cause. A request made under this Code section shall be accompanied by a certified copy of the court order giving the conservator authority over the protected person's property.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 233,§ 42, eff. 1/1/2020.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 560,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
