# § 33-42-4. Definitions

(1) "Applicant" means:
  (A) In the case of an individual long-term care insurance policy, the person who seeks to contract for such benefits; and
  (B) In the case of a group long-term care insurance policy, the proposed certificate holder.
(2) "Certificate" means any certificate issued under a group long-term care insurance policy, which policy has been delivered or issued for delivery in this state.
(3) "Group long-term care insurance" means a long-term care insurance policy which is issued, delivered, or issued for delivery in this state and issued to:
  (A) Any eligible group as defined in Code Section 33-30-1; or
  (B) A group other than as described in Code Section 33-30-1, subject to a finding by the Commissioner that:
    (i) The issuance of the group policy is not contrary to the best interest of the public;
    (ii) The issuance of the group policy would result in economies of acquisition or administration; and
    (iii) The benefits are reasonable in relation to the premiums charged.
(4) "Long-term care insurance" means any accident and sickness insurance policy or rider advertised, marketed, offered, or designed primarily to provide coverage for not less than 12 consecutive benefit months or which provides coverage for recurring confinements separated by a period not to exceed six months with a minimum aggregate period of one year for each covered person on an expense incurred, indemnity, prepaid, or other basis, for one or more necessary or medically necessary diagnostic, preventive, therapeutic, rehabilitative, maintenance, or personal care services, provided in a setting other than an acute care unit of a hospital. Such term includes group and individual accident and sickness policies or riders whether issued by insurers, fraternal benefit societies, health care plans, health maintenance organizations, or any other similar organizations. Long-term care insurance shall not include any accident and sickness insurance policy which is offered primarily to provide basic medicare supplement coverage, basic hospital expense coverage, basic medical-surgical expense coverage, hospital confinement indemnity coverage, major medical expense coverage, disability income protection coverage, catastrophic coverage, comprehensive coverage, accident only coverage, specified disease or specified accident coverage, or limited benefit health coverage. Long-term care insurance may be provided through an individual or group life insurance policy by attachment of a long-term care rider or by the automatic inclusion of a long-term care provision which, notwithstanding Code Section 33-42-3, must meet the requirements of this chapter and regulations promulgated by the Commissioner. Any such long-term care riders or policy provisions shall not be exempt from filing requirements and must be filed with the department for approval before being used in this state.
(5) "Policy" means any policy, contract, or subscriber agreement or any rider or endorsement attached thereto, issued, delivered, issued for delivery, or renewed in this state by an insurer, fraternal benefit society, health care plan, health maintenance organization, or any other similar organization. Such term shall also include a Georgia Qualified Long-term Care Partnership Program approved policy, as defined in paragraph (4) of Code Section 49-4-161, meeting the requirements of the Georgia Qualified Long-term Care Partnership Program as enacted in subsection (a) of Code Section 49-4-162.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 186,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 52,§ 53, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 134,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
