# § 49-3-2. County board members; appointment; terms; role of county board

(a) Each county board shall consist of between five and seven members who shall be appointed by the governing authority of the county. No person serving as a member of a county board on July 1, 2015, shall have such person's term of office shortened by this subsection. On and after that date, however, vacancies in such office which occur for any reason, including but not limited to expiration of the term of office, shall be filled by appointment of the county governing authority except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section. No elected officer of the state or any subdivision thereof shall be eligible for appointment to the county board. In making appointments to the county board of family and children services, the governing authority shall ensure that appointments are reflective of gender, race, ethnic, and age characteristics of the county population. Further, the governing authority shall ensure that all appointments made on or after July 1, 2015, are made from the following categories:
  (1) Pediatric health care providers, active or retired;
  (2) Appropriate school personnel, active or retired;
  (3) Emergency responders, active or retired;
  (4) Law enforcement personnel, active or retired;
  (5) Private child welfare service providers, active or retired;
  (6) Alumni of the child welfare system;
  (7) Mental health care providers, active or retired;
  (8) Former foster parents; and
  (9) Leaders within the faith-based community, active or retired.
(b) The term of office of members of the county board shall be for five years and until the appointment and qualification of their respective successors.
(c) Appointments to fill vacancies on the county board caused by death, resignation, or removal before the expiration of a term shall be made for the remainder of such term in the same manner as provided in this Code section for original appointments. In the event that the governing authority of the county shall fail to fill any such vacancy or any vacancy caused by expiration of term on the county board within 90 days after such vacancy occurs, the commissioner may appoint members to the county board to fill such vacancies.
(d) Members of the county board shall serve without compensation, except that they shall be paid a per diem of not less than $15.00 per month and shall be reimbursed for traveling and other expenses actually incurred in the performance of their official duties; provided, however, that the gross expenses assessed against a county shall not exceed the amount of the budget of the county previously set aside and levied by the county authorities for such expenses.
(e) The role of the county board shall be to protect the well-being of this state's children while preserving family integrity. County boards may review the administration of all welfare and public assistance functions for the county, including such programs as Temporary Assistance for Needy Families (TANF), Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP), employment services, child protective services, foster care, and adoptions, and shall report no less than annually and not later than December 15 of each year to the director of the Division of Family and Children Services of the department the effectiveness of the county department's provision of services, the needs of the community, and its recommendations for improved operations of the county department. County boards shall serve as an active liaison and a link between the county department and the local community. County boards shall support the overall mission of the Division of Family and Children Services of the department.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 49, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 440,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 77,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
