# § 49-3-6. Functions of county department

(a) The primary purpose of county departments shall be to protect children. To achieve this primary purpose, the county departments shall, in accordance with rules and regulations of the Division of Family and Children Services of the department:
  (1) Investigate reports of abuse or neglect;
  (2) Assess, promote, and support the safety of a child in a safe and stable family or other appropriate placement in response to allegations of abuse or neglect;
  (3) Work cooperatively with law enforcement regarding reports that include criminal conduct allegations;
  (4) In collaboration with the family treatment court division planning group, if one exists, establish a written protocol to assess cases involving substantiated reports of abuse or neglect for possible referral to a family treatment court division. Such protocol shall be consistent with the Council of Accountability Courts of Georgia's certification requirements and include sufficient criteria to determine the need for substance abuse treatment; and
  (5) Without compromising child safety, coordinate services to achieve and maintain permanency on behalf of the child, strengthen the family, and provide prevention, intervention, and treatment services pursuant to this title.
(b) In addition to the purpose in subsection (a) of this Code section, and subject to the rules and regulations of the Board of Human Services, the county department shall be charged with the administration of all forms of public assistance in the county, including home relief; indoor and outdoor care for those in need; temporary assistance for needy families; old-age assistance; aid to the blind and otherwise disabled; the care and treatment of dependent and neglected children; and such other welfare activities as shall be delegated to it by the Division of Family and Children Services of the department or by the county commissioners.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 226,§ 1-5, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 77,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-100, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
