# § 25-8-3. Requirements for use of explosives in blasting

(a) The use of explosives for the purpose of blasting in the neighborhood of any public highway, railroad, airport, dwelling house, public building, school, church, commercial or institutional building, or pipeline shall be done in accordance with this chapter and the rules and regulations promulgated by the Commissioner.
(b) In all blasting operations, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the maximum particle velocity of any component of ground motion recorded on a three-component seismograph (where the components - transverse, vertical, and longitudinal - are arranged mutually perpendicular) shall not exceed two inches per second at the location of any dwelling house, public building, school, church, or commercial or institutional building normally occupied.
(c) Blasting operations without instrumentation will be considered as being within the limits set forth in this Code section if such blasting operations are conducted in accordance with subsection (d) of this Code section.
(d) Any blasting operation may be conducted without reference to any maximum amount or period provided by this Code section if the person in charge of the blasting operation demonstrates by instrumentation that maximum particle velocity of any component of the ground motion does not exceed the limits provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(e) Instrumentation for determining particle velocity of ground motion, as set forth in this chapter, shall be limited to devices that conform with design criteria for portable seismographs as found in the United States Bureau of Mines, RI-6487 and United States Bureau of Mines Bulletin 656. The instrument should have calibration traceable to the United States Bureau of Standards. The Commissioner or his duly authorized agent may enter upon premises for the purpose of observing any necessary instrumentation provided by this chapter.
(f) When blasting operations, other than those conducted at a fixed site as a part of any industry or business operated at the site, are to be conducted within close proximity to a known pipeline, the blaster or person in charge of the blasting operations shall take reasonable precautionary measures for the protection of the line and shall notify the owner of the line or his agent that the blastings are intended.
(g) Blasting operations shall not be conducted within close proximity to any public highway unless reasonable precautionary measures are taken to safeguard the public.
(h) When blasting operations are conducted at the immediate location of any dwelling house, public building, school, church, or commercial or institutional building which would result in ground vibrations having a particle velocity exceeding the limits provided by this chapter, such blasting operations may proceed after the receipt of written consent from the property owner or owners affected.
