# § 35-8-21. Training requirements for peace officers; waiver; exemption for retired peace officers; confirmation of training

(a) During calendar year 1999 and during each calendar year thereafter, any person employed or appointed as a peace officer shall complete 20 hours of training as provided in this Code section; provided, however, that any peace officer serving with the Department of Public Safety who is a commissioned officer shall receive annual training as specified by the commissioner of public safety.
(b) The training required by subsection (a) of this Code section shall be completed in sessions approved or recognized by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council.
(c) Peace officers who satisfactorily complete the basic course of training in accordance with the provisions of this chapter shall be excused from the minimum annual training requirement for the calendar year during which the basic course is completed.
(d) Any peace officer who does not fulfill the training requirements of this Code section shall lose his or her power of arrest.
(e) A waiver of the requirement of training provided in this Code section may be granted by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council, in its discretion, upon the presentation of evidence by a peace officer that he or she was unable to complete such training due to medical disability, providential cause, or other reason deemed sufficient by the council.
(f) Any person who is registered or certified with the council as a retired peace officer is excused and exempt from compliance with this Code section for the year in which he or she retires. A retired peace officer may voluntarily comply with the requirements of this Code section and, in that event, such retired peace officer shall receive such minimal annual training without payment of any fees or costs, but only if sufficient class space is available. Nothing in this subsection shall be deemed to grant an exemption to persons required to complete the annual training requirement of this Code section.
(g) Any person required to comply with this Code section shall provide confirmation of his or her training for the previous year to the council in a manner required by the council. Failure to provide the council with confirmation of training in a timely manner or failure to obtain required training in a timely manner shall result in an emergency suspension of the officer's certification by the executive director. The order of emergency suspension issued by the executive director shall be made in writing and shall specify the basis for the determination. The emergency suspension order shall continue in effect until the training requirements are confirmed or a waiver is issued pursuant to subsection (e) of this Code section. An emergency suspension issued pursuant to this subsection shall be automatically withdrawn upon confirmation of required training or the issuance of a waiver by the council.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 274,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 780, § 2A, eff. 7/1/2004.
