# § 35-8-24. Training requirements for jail officers and juvenile correctional officers

(a)
  (1) Any person employed or appointed as a jail officer six months after January 1, 1999, shall not be authorized to serve as a jail officer in any detention facility after a certain date as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section unless such person has successfully completed a training course for jail officers approved by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council.
  (2) Any person employed or appointed as a juvenile correctional officer six months after January 1, 1999, shall not be authorized to serve as a juvenile correctional officer in any juvenile correctional facility after a certain date as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section unless such person has successfully completed a training course for juvenile correctional officers approved by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council.
(b) Any person employed or appointed as a jail officer or juvenile correctional officer six months after January 1, 1999, shall have a period of six months from the date of initial employment to complete the required training course successfully. Any person who fails to complete such training course successfully within six months of the date of initial employment or appointment as a jail officer or as a juvenile correctional officer shall be prohibited from working as a jail officer in a detention facility or as a juvenile correctional officer in a juvenile correctional facility.
(c) Applicants and persons certified under this Code section shall be subject to the powers and authority of the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council applicable to peace officers as defined in this chapter and shall be required to fulfill all requirements of a peace officer, except the requirements of paragraph (8) of subsection (a) of Code Section 35-8-8 and peace officer training requirements applicable to peace officers only.
(d) Persons employed or serving as jail officers or juvenile correctional officers whose employment or service commences prior to and continues on January 1, 1999, are exempt and excused from compliance with the certification provisions of this Code section.
(e) Jail officers or juvenile correctional officers exempt from the certification provisions of this Code section are required to register with the council. The registration shall remain in effect for the period of time said person is employed as a jail officer or as a juvenile correctional officer.
(f) Any registration granted in this Code section shall not become invalid upon termination of employment or appointment as a jail officer or juvenile correctional officer if subsequent employment or appointment as a jail officer or juvenile correctional officer is commenced within 12 months of such prior termination as a jail officer or a juvenile correctional officer.
(g) Any jail officer or juvenile correctional officer exempted from mandatory compliance with this Code section may choose to be certified under this Code section. If so, the council shall have the authority to recognize instruction received by such jail officer or juvenile correctional officer as equivalent to all or part of the instruction required for certification under this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 446,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2008.
