# § 35-8-22. Reimbursement of training expenses by subsequent employer of peace officer; collection procedure; required documentation

(a) Unless otherwise provided by an employment contract to the contrary, if the State of Georgia or any county or municipality thereof employs a peace officer and said peace officer is hired by another agency within 15 months after completing mandated or formalized training requirements, then the total expense of training, including salary paid during training, shall be reimbursed by the hiring agency to the State of Georgia or any county or municipality thereof which initially paid for such training. If said officer is hired by another agency during a period of 15 to 24 months after mandated or formalized training requirements are completed, then one-half of the total expense of training, including salary paid during training, shall be reimbursed by the hiring agency to the State of Georgia or any county or municipality thereof which initially paid for such training. The council shall set standards for reimbursement by hiring agencies based upon actual expenses incurred in mandated or formalized training by individual departments.
(b) The State of Georgia or any county or municipality thereof which initially paid for the training of a peace officer shall submit an itemized, sworn statement to the new employer of the peace officer and shall demand payment thereof and may enforce collection of such obligation through civil remedies and procedures.
(c) Effective July 1, 2003, in order for the State of Georgia or any county or municipality thereof to demand reimbursement, the demanding governmental unit must be able to document that the peace officer in question signed an acknowledgment of the terms of this Code section or an employment contract specifying the provisions of this Code section prior to such peace officer's employment with the demanding governmental unit. Otherwise, this Code section shall not apply to such demand for reimbursement.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 66, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
