# § 35-8-26. [Effective 12/31/2030] TASER and electronic control weapons; requirements for use; establishment of policies; training

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "TASER and Electronic Control Weapons Act."
(b) It is the intent and purpose of the Georgia General Assembly to establish legal requirements for the official use of electronic control weapons and similar devices by law enforcement officers, including those officers employed in detention facilities, which requirements shall be consistent with generally accepted industry practices. It is the further intent of the General Assembly to require that such devices, commonly referred to as TASERs or stun-guns, which disrupt the central nervous system of the human body, be used for law enforcement purposes in a manner consistent with established standards and with federal and state constitutional provisions.
(c) A law enforcement unit authorizing the use of electronic control weapons or similar devices shall establish lawful written policies and directives providing for the use and deployment of such weapons and devices that are consistent with the training requirements established by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council. The policies and directives required by this subsection shall be issued prior to the issuance of such devices.
(d) Prior to the official use of electronic control weapons or similar devices, peace officers authorized by the officer's law enforcement unit to use such devices shall be required to satisfactorily complete a course of instruction and certification requirements approved by the council. All persons certified to use electronic control weapons shall complete an update or refresher training course of such duration and at such time as may be prescribed by the council in order for their electronic control weapons certification to remain in force and effect.
(e) A department head authorizing the use of an electronic control weapon or similar device or a peace officer using an electronic control weapon or similar device in violation of this Code section shall be subject to disciplinary action as provided for in this chapter. The council is authorized to withdraw or suspend the certification to operate an electronic control weapon of any person for failure to meet the update or refresher requirements specified in this Code section or for violation of any portion of this chapter relating to conditions which may lead to the withdrawal, suspension, or probation of a peace officer's certification.
(f) (For effective date, see note.) The Georgia Public Safety Training Center shall provide council approved training to peace officers for the use of electronic control weapons and similar devices.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 692,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2007.
See 2006 Ga. Laws 692, § 2.
