# § 45-20-4. Duties and responsibilities of commissioner in administration of this chapter

(1) To serve as executive secretary to the board, to attend meetings as directed by the board, and to provide such professional, technical, and other supportive assistance as may be required by the board in the performance of its duties;
(2) To submit to the Governor the rules and regulations adopted by the board. Such rules and regulations when approved by the Governor shall have the force and effect of law and shall be binding upon the state departments covered by this article and shall include provisions for the establishment and maintenance of classification and compensation plans, the conduct of examinations, appointments, promotions, transfers, demotions, appeals of classified employees, reports of performance, payroll certification, and other phases of personnel administration. Such rules and regulations shall define and prohibit improper political activity by any departmental employee of the State Personnel Board or any employee covered under the terms of this article and shall provide that there shall be no discrimination for or against any person or employee in any manner, to include, but not be limited to, hiring, discharge, compensation, benefits, terms or conditions of employment, promotion, job classification, transfer, privileges, or demotion because of political affiliation, religious affiliation, race, creed, national origin, sex, age between 40 and 70 years, or physical disability. Such rules and regulations shall conform to the minimum standards for merit systems of personnel administration as specified by those federal departments from which federal funds are obtained for use by the several state departments covered by this article. Compensation plans and modifications thereto promulgated under the rules and regulations of the commissioner shall become effective as adopted upon approval of the director of the Office of Planning and Budget;
(3) To administer the adoption and compliance with rules and regulations of the board in all departments;
(4) To appoint and prescribe the duties of DOAS staff as necessary to carry out the duties of this chapter;
(5) To establish an annual budget covering administrative costs of performing the duties and responsibilities in accordance with this chapter, including the costs of administering such federal laws relating to personnel administration as the Governor may direct including the Intergovernmental Personnel Act of 1970, and to determine an equitable basis of allocating the annual costs among the several departments served by the DOAS in accordance with this chapter, with the amounts and rates for such services to be established in each general or amended appropriations Act;
(6) To ensure compliance with all applicable state and federal statutes and regulations concerning discrimination in employment, personnel administration, and related matters; and
(7) To cooperate with appointing authorities in the administration of this article in order to promote public service and establish conditions of service which will attract and retain employees of character and ability and to increase efficiency and economy in governmental departments by improving the methods of personnel administration with full recognition of the requirements and needs of management.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 557,§ 4, eff. 5/12/2008.
