# § 45-20-92. Rules adopted by State Personnel Board; certification of testing laboratories

(a) The State Personnel Board shall adopt rules to establish:
  (1) The portion of employees in the high-risk work group that may be selected at random for testing at each testing period;
  (2) Methods for assuring that employees are selected for testing on a random basis;
  (3) Methods for assuring that privacy intrusions are minimized during collection of body fluid specimens;
  (4) Methods for assuring that any body fluid specimens are stored and transported to testing laboratories at proper temperatures and under such conditions that the quality of the specimens shall not be jeopardized;
  (5) Methods for assuring that the identity of employees whose tests show the usage of an illegal drug is limited to the staff who are entitled to this information; and
  (6) The identification of those persons entitled to the information and shall adopt such other rules as it may deem appropriate to carry out the purposes of this article. The board may, in its discretion, delegate to the commissioner such authority as appropriate to carry out the purposes of this article.
(b) The commissioner shall establish and maintain a list of those laboratories qualified to conduct established drug tests and shall determine which illegal drugs will be the subject of testing; provided, however, that no laboratory shall be so certified unless that laboratory, on a daily basis, adds to its urine testing program a minimum of 10 percent blind test specimens.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 557,§ 19, eff. 5/12/2008.
