# § 45-20-8. Procedure for adverse action against classified employees generally; appeals generally

(a) Classified employees who have successfully completed a working test period may be dismissed from employment or otherwise adversely affected as to compensation or employment status only if such action is taken in accordance with the rules and regulations of the State Personnel Board governing adverse actions and appeals for classified employees.
(b) This article is not intended to create a property interest in the job, but rather to create only a procedure under which classified employees can be dismissed or otherwise adversely affected. The procedure adopted for dismissing a classified employee from employment or otherwise adversely affecting his or her compensation or employment status shall include, as a minimum, that the appointing authority must provide the classified employee with reasons for the action and an opportunity to file an appeal and request a hearing which may be held before either the board or an administrative law judge of the Office of State Administrative Hearings; provided, however, that the hearing may be held subsequent to the effective date of the dismissal or other purported adverse action; provided, further, that the right to appeal shall not apply when persons are dismissed or otherwise adversely affected as to compensation due to curtailment of funds or reduction in staff when such action is in accordance with the rules and regulations of the State Personnel Board.
(c) No adverse action appealed to the State Personnel Board under the rules and regulations of the board, this article, or otherwise shall be considered invalid for failure to follow or comply with the rules and regulations of the board, this article, or any other requirement unless it is shown that the individual against whom the action has been taken has been substantially harmed by the procedural failure.
(d) The decision of the board on an appeal as to whether a dismissal or other adverse action was in accordance with the rules and regulations prescribed by the State Personnel Board shall be binding upon the appointing authority. The board may modify the action of the appointing authority but may not increase the severity of such action on the employee. Such appointing authority shall promptly comply with such order as may be issued as a result of the appeal to the State Personnel Board. The decision of the board shall not limit the rights of the employee or the department to judicial review as to errors of law, and such decision shall be stayed pending other further appeal.
(e) For purposes of this Code section and Code Section 45-20-9, administrative law judges appointed by the chief state administrative law judge pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 13 of Title 50 are authorized to hold hearings and otherwise assist the State Personnel Board in the resolution of appeals.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 557,§ 7, eff. 5/12/2008.
