# § 45-20-3.1. Rule-making procedure

(a) At least 30 days prior to the date of a public hearing held by the board to consider the adoption of rules or regulations to effectuate this chapter, the commissioner shall transmit a notice containing an exact copy of the proposed rule or regulation to each member of the Senate Government Oversight Committee and the House Committee on Governmental Affairs. The notice shall provide a citation to the authority pursuant to which the proposed rule or regulation is to be adopted and, if it amends an existing rule or regulation, such existing rule or regulation shall be clearly identified. The notice shall also state the date, time, and place of the public hearing at which adoption of the proposed rule shall be considered.
(b) If, prior to the date of the public hearing at which the proposed rule or regulation is to be considered for adoption, the chairperson of either legislative committee specified in subsection (a) of this Code section notifies the commissioner that the committee objects to the adoption of the proposed rule or regulation or has questions concerning the purpose, nature, or necessity of the proposed rule or regulation, it shall be the duty of the commissioner to consult with the committee prior to the board's adoption of the proposed rule or regulation.
(c) If the commissioner finds that the immediate adoption of a rule or regulation is necessary to secure or protect the interests of the DOAS, such rule or regulation may be adopted by the board on an emergency basis without following the procedures required by subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section. In that event, the commissioner shall present a resolution to the board for adoption declaring the existence of an emergency and explaining the basis for such declaration as a condition necessary to adopt a rule or regulation on an emergency basis. Any rule or regulation adopted pursuant to the authority of this subsection shall expire in not more than 120 days immediately following its adoption, but the adoption of an identical rule pursuant to the requirements of this Code section shall not be precluded.
(d) Each rule or regulation adopted by the board shall become effective upon approval by the Governor. The commissioner shall immediately file an original and two copies of the rule or regulation in the office of the Secretary of State.
(e) Rules or regulations filed with the Secretary of State pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section shall contain a citation to the authority pursuant to which the rules or regulations are adopted and, when existing rules or regulations are amended, the filings shall clearly identify the existing rules or regulations. The Secretary of State shall endorse on each filing the time and date of the filing and shall maintain a file of the rules and regulations for public inspection.
(f) Rules and regulations filed with the Secretary of State pursuant to the requirements of subsections (d) and (e) of this Code section shall be published by the Secretary of State as a part of the rules of state agencies published by the Secretary of State pursuant to Code Section 50-13-7.
(g) The courts shall take judicial notice of any rule which has become effective pursuant to this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
