# § 45-20-19. Termination or elimination of positions or employees through reduction in force

(a) This subsection shall apply whenever any department or agency proposes to terminate the employment of one or more classified employees through a reduction in force. No termination subject to this subsection shall become effective until at least 30 days after the affected employee has been notified in writing by the department or agency. Such notice must contain at a minimum:
  (1) A statement of the nature of the proposed action to be taken with respect to the affected employee;
  (2) An explanation of the rights of the affected employee due to the proposed reduction in force, including any right of appeal, or other opportunities regarding possible continued employment, any opportunities to apply for employment with any public or private party assuming the functions of the employee, or any other similar opportunities; and
  (3) An explanation of the affected employee's rights and options regarding his or her employment benefits, including but not limited to any right to continued participation in any retirement system or insurance plan.
(b) This subsection shall apply whenever any department or agency proposes to eliminate 25 or more positions or terminate 25 or more employees through a reduction in force. At least 15 days prior to giving the employee notice, the department or agency shall give written notice to the President of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of the proposed reduction in force. Such notice shall:
  (1) Identify the facilities and operations to be affected and the estimated number of employees to be affected; and
  (2) State the reasons for the proposed action.
(c) Subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section shall not apply to a reduction in force which must become effective immediately because the department or agency has insufficient funds available to pay the salaries of the affected employees.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 557,§ 15, eff. 5/12/2008.
