# § 45-20-110. Definitions

(1) "Applicant" means a candidate who is offered public employment with any agency, department, commission, bureau, board, college, university, institution, or authority of any branch of state government or who has commenced employment but has not submitted to an established test for illegal drugs.
(2) "Established test" means the collection and testing of bodily fluids administered in a manner equivalent to that required by the Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs (HHS Regulations 53 Fed. Reg. 11979, et seq., as amended).
(3) "Illegal drug" means marijuana/cannabinoids (THC), cocaine, amphetamines/methamphetamines, opiates, opioids, opioid analgesics, opioid derivatives, or phencyclidine (PCP). Such term shall not include any drug when used pursuant to a valid prescription or when used as otherwise authorized by state or federal law.
(4) "Job" means a defined set of key responsibilities and performance standards encompassing one or more positions sufficiently similar in responsibilities and performance standards to be grouped together.
(5) "Medical review officer" means a properly licensed physician who reviews and interprets results of drug testings and evaluates those results together with medical history or any other relevant biomedical information to confirm positive and negative results.
(6) "Position" means a set of duties and responsibilities assigned or delegated by competent authority for performance by one person.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 329,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
