# § 45-20-20. Eligible employees must register with Selective Service System; exemptions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Employing unit" means that budget unit under the Appropriations Act through which an officer or employee receives compensation for services rendered as such officer or employee.
  (2) "Federal law" means Section 3(a) of the Military Selective Service Act (50 App. U.S.C.A. 451, et seq.).
(b) A state officer, other than an elected officer whose office is created by the Constitution, shall not be eligible to take office if such person is a male between 18 and 26 years of age unless, prior to taking the oath of office, such person presents proof to the Secretary of State of having registered with the Selective Service System as required by federal law or of being exempt from such registration.
(c) A person employed by the state before July 1, 1998, other than an officer specified or exempted by subsection (b) of this Code section, who is a male between 18 and 26 years of age shall be terminated for cause unless, by January 1, 1999, such person presents proof to the employing unit of state government of having registered with the Selective Service System as required by federal law or of being exempt from such registration.
(d) A person shall not be hired as an employee of the state on or after July 1, 1998, other than an officer specified or exempted by subsection (b) of this Code section, if that person is a male between 18 and 26 years of age unless, prior to such hiring, such person presents proof to the employing unit of state government of having registered with the Selective Service System as required by federal law or of being exempt from such registration.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
