# § 45-20-90. Definitions

(1) "Employee" means any employee required to be certified under the provisions of Chapter 8 of Title 35 receiving a salary or hourly wage from any state agency, department, commission, bureau, board, or authority. "Employee" shall also include any certified employee working under a personnel contract to provide personnel services, including but not limited to medical, security, or transportation services to a state or other public agency.
(2) "Established drug test" means the collection and testing of bodily fluids administered in a manner equivalent to that required by the Mandatory Guidelines for Federal Workplace Drug Testing Programs (HHS Regulations 53 Fed. Reg. 11979, et seq., as amended) or other professionally valid procedures approved by the board.
(3) "High-risk work" means those duties where inattention to duty or errors in judgment while on duty will have the potential for significant risk of harm to the employee, other employees, or the general public.
(4) "Illegal drug" means marijuana as defined in paragraph (16) of Code Section 16-13-21, as amended; a controlled substance as defined in paragraph (4) of Code Section 16-13-21, as amended; a dangerous drug as defined in Code Section 16-13-71, as amended; or any other controlled substance or dangerous drug that persons are prohibited from using. The term "illegal drug" shall not include any drug when used pursuant to a valid medical prescription or when used as otherwise authorized by state or federal law.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-19, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 557,§ 17, eff. 5/12/2008.
