# § 45-20-6. Composition of classified and unclassified service; effect of exclusion from classified service on eligibility for membership in Employees' Retirement System of Georgia; working test period before obtaining rights of appeal

(a) Any officer or employee who occupied a classified position under the State Personnel Administration prior to July 1, 1996, or as provided in Code Section 15-11-69 shall remain in the classified service so long as such officer or employee shall remain in a classified position or as otherwise provided by law. Employees in the classified service shall have, upon completing a working test period, appeal rights as provided in Code Sections 45-20-8 and 45-20-9.
(b) Reserved.
(c) Exclusion from the classified service shall not exclude any employee, officer, or official from eligibility for membership or membership in the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, provided that such employee, officer, or official is otherwise eligible for membership under Chapter 2 of Title 47.
(d) It is the intent of the General Assembly that employees in the classified service be required to serve a working test period before they obtain rights of appeal and that the successful completion of this probationary period is part of the employment examination procedure. Each employee serving in a working test period shall be provided with management review by the appointing authority within ten calendar days of the date the employee has completed one-half of the working test period or as near to such date as is practicable. The management review shall include an evaluation of the employee's progress and recommendations, if any, for corrective action. The provision of management review pursuant to this subsection is solely for the purpose of promoting efficient management and employee development and shall not be interpreted as granting any additional rights to a working test employee. The State Personnel Board shall be responsible for adopting and amending rules and regulations establishing the guidelines to be used by the appointing authority in completing the management review pursuant to this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 4-53, eff. 1/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 557,§ 6, eff. 5/12/2008.
