# § 27-1-13. Disposition of funds received by department; appropriations; grants and donations for natural resources conservation camps

(a) All funds resulting from the operation of the department and from the administration of the laws and regulations pertaining to wildlife, excluding fines, but including all license fees and other income (except that income provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section), shall be paid into the general funds of the state treasury; and each year at least such amount shall be appropriated to the department. The board shall be authorized to establish, by rule or regulation, a procedure to refund fees collected in error or overpayment or to which the department or state is otherwise not entitled.
(b) The department is authorized to accept grants and donations (either monetary or of real or personal property) for the purpose of creating and maintaining natural resources conservation camps in the state. Any donation or grant so received and any income therefrom or any income derived from the operation of any of the camps shall be held and maintained by the department for the exclusive use and the benefit of each of said camps. The board is authorized and directed to promulgate reasonable rules and regulations respecting the operation of said camps.
(c) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, the department is authorized to retain all miscellaneous funds generated by the operation of its wildlife management areas and refuges, its public fishing areas, and its wildlife, hunter, and boating education programs for use in the operation and maintenance of those areas, refuges, and programs. Any such funds not expended for this purpose in the fiscal year in which they are generated shall be deposited in the state treasury. Nothing in this Code section shall be construed so as to allow the department to retain any funds required by the Constitution of Georgia to be paid into the state treasury. The department shall comply with all provisions of Code Section 45-5-7, Parts 1 and 2 of Article 4 of Chapter 12 of Title 45, the "Budget Act," except Code Section 45-12-92, prior to expending any such miscellaneous funds.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 182,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 307, § 3, eff. 7/1/2001.
