# § 27-1-37. Administrative orders; emergency administrative orders; administrative review

(a) Whenever the department has reason to believe that a violation of any provision of this title, any rule or regulation adopted pursuant thereto, or a condition of any permit issued thereunder has occurred or is occurring, the department may, in its discretion, issue an administrative order requiring the violator to take whatever corrective action the department deems necessary in order to obtain compliance within a period of time set forth in such order. Such order may also authorize the seizure of any wildlife or wild animal which the department determines is being or has been taken, imported, sold, transferred, or possessed in violation of this title, any regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, or a condition of any permit or license issued thereunder. Any such order issued by the department shall become final unless the person named therein files with the department a written request for a hearing within 30 days after the order is served personally or by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery on such person.
(b) In addition to taking the actions authorized in subsection (a) of this Code section, the department may issue an emergency administrative order for the purpose of authorizing any appropriate enforcement action including, but not limited to, the seizure of wildlife or wild animals; provided, however, that such emergency order must be supported by and have attached thereto an affidavit stating that the affiant has personal knowledge that immediate irreparable injury is likely to occur to wildlife or other natural resources, to wild animals, or to human beings. Any such emergency order issued by the department shall be effective immediately upon the issuance of the order. The person named in the order shall, upon written request within 30 days of the issuance of the order, be entitled to a hearing, the hearing to be held within ten days of receipt of the request.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require the issuance of an administrative order or emergency administrative order to seize contraband or wildlife in accordance with this title.
(d) The hearing reviewing an administrative order or an emergency administrative order shall be conducted by an administrative law judge appointed by the Board of Natural Resources. The hearing before the administrative law judge shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and the rules and regulations adopted by the board pursuant thereto. The decision of the administrative law judge shall constitute the final decision of the board and any party to the hearing, including the department, shall have the right of judicial review thereof in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50.
