# § 36-32-40. [Effective Until 7/1/2025] Creation of council; membership and organization; purpose; expenses; contracts; assistance to council; members not ineligible to hold office of judge

(a) There is created a council of municipal court judges to be known as the "Council of Municipal Court Judges of Georgia." The council shall be composed of the judges of the municipal courts of this state. The council is authorized to organize itself and to develop a constitution and bylaws. The officers of said council shall consist of a president, a first vice president, a second vice president, a secretary, a treasurer, and such other officers as the council shall deem necessary. The council shall have an executive committee composed of two representatives from each judicial administrative district.
(b) It shall be the purpose of the council to effectuate the constitutional and statutory responsibilities conferred upon it by law, to further the improvement of the municipal courts and the administration of justice, to assist the judges of the municipal courts throughout the state in the execution of their duties, and to promote and assist in the training of such judges.
(c) Expenses of the administration of the council shall be paid from state funds appropriated for that purpose, from federal funds available to the council for that purpose, or from private funds available to the council, and from other appropriate sources.
(d) The council through its officers may contract with a person or firm including any member of the council for the production of educational material and compensate said member for producing such material, provided that funds are available to the council at the time of execution of the contract or will be available at the time of the completion of the contract and provided that the terms of the contract are disclosed to the full council and made available to the general public and news media. At the request of the council, the Administrative Office of the Courts shall be authorized to act as the agent of the council for the purpose of supervising and implementing the contract.
(e) The Administrative Office of the Courts shall provide technical services to the council and shall assist the council in complying with all its legal requirements.
(f) Notwithstanding any other law, a councilmember shall not be ineligible to hold the office of judge of a municipal court by virtue of his or her position as a member of the council and membership in the council shall not constitute the holding of a public office.

## History

This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
