# § 36-32-13. Municipal court clerks; role of Municipal Courts Training Council

(a) For purposes of this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Municipal court" shall have the same meaning as described in subsection (a) of Code Section 36-32-1.
  (2) "Municipal court clerk" shall mean the primary person most directly responsible for the administration of a municipal court other than a judge of the municipal court.
(b)
  (1) Any person who is hired or appointed as a municipal court clerk on or after July 1, 2006, shall satisfactorily complete a minimum of 16 hours of training related to the operation of municipal court as prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Courts Training Council within his or her first year of service as a municipal court clerk.
  (2) Each municipal court clerk, regardless of when he or she was hired or appointed, shall complete a minimum of eight hours of training related to the operation of municipal court as prescribed by the Georgia Municipal Courts Training Council on an annual basis. The training required by this paragraph shall be satisfied by completing the training provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection in the municipal court clerk's first year of service.
  (3) The reasonable costs and expense of training required by this Code section shall be paid by the governing authority of the municipality from municipal funds.
(c) The Georgia Municipal Courts Training Council shall keep records of training completed by municipal court clerks.
(d) In any year that any municipal court clerk does not satisfactorily complete the required training, the Georgia Municipal Courts Training Council shall promptly notify the governing authority of the applicable municipality as well as the chief municipal court judge of the applicable municipality.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 36, eff. 5/1/2012.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 672,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
