# § 49-9-2. Creation of Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Services Board; membership; duties

(a) There is created the Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Services Board. The board shall consist of nine members who work or have worked in the area of vocational rehabilitation or who are a part of the vocational rehabilitation community; provided, however, that five members shall be persons with disabilities or family members of persons with disabilities.
(b) The members of the board shall be appointed by the Governor. The first such members shall be appointed by the Governor to take office on July 1, 2012, for initial terms as follows: Three such members shall be appointed for terms of one year; three such members shall be appointed for terms of two years; and three such members shall be appointed for terms of three years. Thereafter, the Governor shall appoint successors upon the expiration of the respective terms of office for terms of three years. All such members shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. Such members shall be eligible for reappointment to successive terms of office as members of the board.
(c) Vacancies in office shall be filled by appointment by the Governor in the same manner as the appointment to the position on the board which becomes vacant. An appointment to fill a vacancy other than by expiration of a term of office shall be for the balance of the unexpired term.
(d) Members of the board may be removed from office under the same conditions for removal from office of members of professional licensing boards provided in Code Section 43-1-17.
(e) There shall be a chairperson of the board elected by and from the membership of the board who shall be the presiding officer of the board. The term of the chairperson shall be established by rules of the board.
(f) A quorum for transacting business shall be determined by the members of the board.
(g) The members of the board shall receive a per diem allowance and expenses as shall be set and approved by the Office of Planning and Budget in conformance with rates and allowances set for members of other state boards.
(h) In addition to the powers and duties set forth in this chapter, the board shall recommend to the Governor and the General Assembly changes in state programs, statutes, policies, budgets, and standards relating to vocational rehabilitation services, the improvement of coordination among state and local agencies that provide vocational rehabilitation services, and the improvement of the condition of citizens who are in need of vocational rehabilitation services.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 608,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
