# § 49-9-51. Creation of Employment First Georgia Council; membership; operation

(a) There is created the Employment First Georgia Council. The council shall be assigned to the Department of Human Services for administrative purposes only, as defined by Code Section 50-4-3; provided, however, that the Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency shall provide staff and administrative and clerical functions for the council.
(b) The Employment First Georgia Council shall be composed of 14 members as follows:
  (1) The executive director of the Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency or his or her designee, who shall serve as chairperson of the council;
  (2) The commissioner of the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities or his or her designee;
  (3) The Commissioner of Labor or his or her designee;
  (4) The commissioner of the Technical College System of Georgia or his or her designee;
  (5) The Chancellor of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia or his or her designee;
  (6) The State School Superintendent or his or her designee;
  (7) The executive director of the Georgia Council for Developmental Disabilities or his or her designee;
  (8) A representative of an association or other organization of community rehabilitation providers that assist individuals with disabilities in overcoming barriers to employment;
  (9) A representative of an association or other organization that provides supported employment and nonemployment day services to individuals with disabilities;
  (10) A representative from the business community;
  (11) An individual with an intellectual or developmental disability;
  (12) An individual with a physical disability;
  (13) An individual from the mental health community; and
  (14) A family member of an individual with a disability.
(c) The members of the council in paragraphs (8) through (14) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be residents of this state. Such members shall be appointed by the Governor and serve for a term of three years or until his or her successor is appointed and qualified.
(d) If there is a vacancy on the council, such position shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
(e) The council shall annually elect from its membership a vice chairperson and such other officers as it deems appropriate. A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum at any meeting held by the council. The chairperson shall vote only to break a tie.
(f) The council may conduct meetings at such places and times as it deems necessary or convenient to enable it to exercise fully and effectively its powers, perform its duties, and accomplish the objectives and purposes of this chapter. The council shall hold meetings at the call of the chairperson, the executive director of the Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency, or upon written request of a majority of the members. The council shall meet no less than four times each year.
(g) Each member of the board shall be entitled to receive the compensation and allowances provided for in Code Section 28-1-8. Members of the council who are state officials or state employees shall receive no compensation for their services on the council, but may be reimbursed for expenses they incur in the performance of their duties as members of the council in the same manner as they are reimbursed for expenses in their capacities as state officials or employees.
(h) The chairperson may designate and appoint committees from among the membership of the council and may appoint nonmembers of the council to advisory committees to advise the council on the fulfillment of its duties. The members of the advisory committees shall not receive any per diem or reimbursements; provided, however, that such members shall be entitled to receive the mileage allowance provided for in Code Section 50-19-7 for the use of a personal car in connection with attendance at meetings called by the council.
(i) The Georgia Vocational Rehabilitation Agency, with the concurrence of the council, shall have the authority to employ such administrative staff, consultants, subject matter experts, economists, budget analysts, data analysts, statisticians, and other individuals or organizations deemed appropriate and necessary to carry out the functions of the council within the limits of the appropriations made to the council.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 455,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
