# § 32-9-4.1. FlexAuto lanes

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "FlexAuto lane" means an area designated as a special lane of travel created by converting emergency lane and hard shoulder areas on the left or right side of an interstate highway or other road into a rush hour traffic lane for use by automobiles during certain hours.
(b) The department, with the approval of the board, is authorized to designate FlexAuto lanes on the state highway system for the purpose of improving traffic flow in and around areas with a history of traffic congestion.
(c) Any FlexAuto lane shall be appropriately striped and marked and shall have signage appropriate to indicate its nature, as determined by the department. The department may incorporate emergency havens, emergency ramps, or emergency parking pads into the design and creation of FlexAuto lanes, as determined appropriate by the department.
(d) The hours of usage of a FlexAuto lane shall be determined by the department.
(e) It shall be unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle to use a FlexAuto lane for purposes of travel other than emergency use outside the permitted hours of travel use, as determined and posted by the department. It shall be unlawful for any person operating any motor vehicle other than an automobile, motorcycle, or light truck to use a FlexAuto lane for purposes of travel other than emergency use at any time.
(f) Prior to implementing this Code section, the department shall, if necessary, seek to secure and implement any federal approvals, waivers, or other actions necessary or appropriate in order to implement this Code section without any loss or impairment of federal funding.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 256,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2017.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 135,§ 2, eff. 5/3/2005.
