# § 32-9-4. Designation of special or exclusive use travel lanes; use of such lanes

(a) The department is authorized to designate travel lanes in each direction of travel on any road in the state highway system for the exclusive or preferential use of:
  (1) Buses;
  (2) Motorcycles;
  (3) Passenger vehicles occupied by two persons or more;
  (4) Vehicles bearing alternative fueled vehicle license plates issued under paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of Code Section 40-2-38 or paragraph (7) of subsection (l) of Code Section 40-2-86.1; or
  (5) Other vehicles as designated by the department. Where such designation has been made, the road shall be appropriately marked with such signs or other roadway markers and markings to inform the traveling public of the lane restrictions imposed.
(a.1) Upon approval through either legislative action in the United States Congress or regulatory action by the United States Department of Transportation to permit hybrid vehicles with fewer than two occupants to operate in a high occupancy vehicle lane, the department shall authorize hybrid vehicles to use the travel lanes designated for such vehicles as provided in paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of this Code section.
(b) No driver of any vehicle not authorized to be operated in a lane designated and signed for exclusive use shall operate such vehicle in such lane except to execute turning movements or in an emergency situation. Any person who violates this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, punishable as provided for in Code Section 40-6-54.
(c) No traffic lane shall be designated and signed for exclusive use pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section without the approval of the State Transportation Board.
(d) The department is authorized to promulgate necessary rules and regulations in order to carry out the purposes of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 148,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-61, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 191, § 2, eff. 7/1/2003.
