# § 32-9-6. Financial assistance for rail service

(a) The department is designated as the state agency to offer financial assistance, in the form of a rail service continuation payment, to enable rail service, for which the Interstate Commerce Commission has determined a certificate of abandonment should be issued, to be continued.
(b) The department is authorized to receive and administer federal financial assistance and to distribute, by contract or otherwise, such federal financial assistance, alone or together with state, local, or private funds available for such purposes, for the implementation of railroad assistance programs that are designed to provide for:
  (1) The cost of rail service continuation payments;
  (2) The cost of purchasing a line of railroad or other rail properties to maintain existing rail services or to provide for future rail services;
  (3) The cost of rehabilitating and improving rail properties on a line of railroad to the extent necessary to permit adequate and efficient rail service on such line; or
  (4) The cost of reducing the cost of the lost rail service in a manner less expensive than continuing rail service. Subject to general fund appropriations for these purposes, the department is authorized to expend state funds to the extent necessary to pay the state's share of such payments.
(c) The department shall provide to the Georgia Public Service Commission the pertinent information it may possess regarding a proposed abandonment of a railroad line and shall assist the Public Service Commission, as required, in developing the state's position on the abandonment. The Public Service Commission shall provide to the department the pertinent information it may possess concerning any railroad line for which abandonment has been requested in order to assist the department in preparing an economic and operational analysis of the line.
(d) Should the department decide to implement a railroad assistance program in accordance with paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of this Code section, the Public Service Commission will use its best efforts, within the scope of its powers and responsibilities, to assist the department in implementing such a program.
(e) The department is authorized to promulgate reasonable rules and regulations for the implementation and administration of this Code section.
(f) The department shall not implement or propose to implement any railroad assistance program without the prior concurrence of the State Transportation Board.
(g) Funds appropriated to the department pursuant to Article III, Section IX, Paragraph VI(b) of the Constitution of Georgia may not be utilized for any of the purposes set out in this Code section.
