# § 2-3-3. Creation of authority; membership; vacancies; compensation and reimbursement; record keeping

(a) There is created a body corporate and politic to be known as the Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority which shall be deemed to be an instrumentality of the State of Georgia and a public corporation; and by that name, style, and title such body may contract and be contracted with, sue and be sued, implead and be impleaded, and complain and defend in all courts of this state.
(b) The authority shall consist of ten members, including nine appointed members and the Commissioner of Agriculture, ex officio. Initially, appointed members shall serve staggered terms of office as follows: two members for one year, two members for two years, two members for three years, and three members for four years. Thereafter, each appointed member shall serve for a term of four years. All appointed members shall be appointed by the Governor, confirmed by the Senate, and shall serve until the appointment and qualification of a successor. The members appointed by the Governor shall be selected from the state at large but shall be representative of all of the geographic areas of the state. Such members also shall represent the state's agriculture and business interests. The Governor is authorized to appoint any elected or appointed state, county, municipal, or school board official or employee, except officials and employees of the legislative or judicial branches of state government, as members of the authority, and any person so appointed is authorized to serve as a member of the authority.
(c) All successors to appointed members shall be appointed in the same manner as original appointments. Vacancies in office of appointed members shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be for the unexpired term. The authority shall elect its own officers. No vacancy on the authority shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all rights and perform all duties of the authority.
(d) The appointed members of the authority shall receive a daily expense allowance and reimbursement for transportation costs as provided for in Code Section 45-7-21; and the members of the authority shall not receive any other compensation for their services as such.
(e) The authority shall have perpetual existence. Any change in name or composition of the authority shall in no way affect the vested rights of any person under this chapter or impair the obligations of any contracts existing under this chapter.
(f) The members of the authority shall be accountable in all respects as trustees. The authority shall keep suitable and proper books and records of all receipts, income, and expenditures of every kind and shall submit for inspection all the books, together with the proper statement of the authority's financial position, to the state auditor.
(g) The authority is assigned to the Department of Agriculture for administrative purposes only.

## History

Renumbered from § 12-3-472 by 2011 Ga. Laws 66,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 66,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
