# § 33-37-13. Authority of rehabilitator; additional remedies; rehabilitation plan

(a) The Commissioner as rehabilitator may appoint one or more special deputies who shall have all the powers and responsibilities of the rehabilitator granted under this Code section, and the Commissioner may employ such clerks and assistants as deemed necessary. The compensation of the special deputy, clerks, and assistants and all expenses of taking possession of the insurer and of conducting the proceedings shall be fixed by the Commissioner with the approval of the court and shall be paid out of the funds or assets of the insurer. The persons appointed under this Code section shall serve at the pleasure of the Commissioner. The Commissioner, as rehabilitator, may, with the approval of the court, appoint an advisory committee of policyholders, claimants, or other creditors including guaranty associations should such a committee be deemed necessary. Such committee shall serve at the pleasure of the Commissioner and shall serve without compensation other than reimbursement for reasonable travel and per diem living expenses. No other committee of any nature shall be appointed by the Commissioner or the court in rehabilitation proceedings conducted under this chapter.
(b) In the event that the property of the insurer does not contain sufficient cash or liquid assets to defray the costs incurred, the Commissioner may advance the costs so incurred out of any appropriation for the maintenance of the Department of Insurance. Any amounts so advanced for expenses of administration shall be repaid to the Commissioner for the use of the Department of Insurance out of the first available money of the insurer.
(c) The rehabilitator may take such action as he deems necessary or appropriate to reform and revitalize the insurer. He shall have all the powers of the directors, officers, and managers whose authority shall be suspended, except as they are redelegated by the rehabilitator. He shall have full power to direct and manage, to hire and discharge employees subject to any contract rights they may have, and to deal with the property and business of the insurer.
(d) If it appears to the rehabilitator that there has been criminal or tortious conduct, or breach of any contractual or fiduciary obligation detrimental to the insurer by any officer, manager, agent, broker, employee, or other person, he may pursue all appropriate legal remedies on behalf of the insurer.
(e) If the rehabilitator determines that reorganization, consolidation, conversion, reinsurance, merger, or other transformation of the insurer is appropriate, he shall prepare a plan to effect such changes. Upon application of the rehabilitator for approval of the plan, and after such notice and hearings as the court may prescribe, the court may either approve or disapprove the plan proposed, or may modify it and approve it as modified. Any plan approved under this Code section shall be, in the judgment of the court, fair and equitable to all parties concerned. If the plan is approved, the rehabilitator shall carry out the plan. In the case of a life insurer, the plan proposed may include the imposition of liens upon the policies of the company if all rights of shareholders are first relinquished. A plan for a life insurer may also propose imposition of a moratorium upon loan and cash surrender rights under policies for such period and to such an extent as may be necessary.
(f) The rehabilitator shall have the power under Code Sections 33-37-25 and 33-37-26 to avoid fraudulent transfers.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-93, eff. 7/1/2019.
