# § 33-37-41. Priority of distribution of claims

(1)Class 1. The costs and expenses of administration during rehabilitation and liquidation, including, but not limited to, the following:
  (A) The actual and necessary costs of preserving or recovering the assets of the insurer;
  (B) Compensation for all authorized services rendered in the rehabilitation and liquidation;
  (C) Any necessary filing fees;
  (D) The fees and mileage payable to witnesses;
  (E) Authorized reasonable attorney's fees and other professional services rendered in the rehabilitation and liquidation; and
  (F) The reasonable expenses of a guaranty association or foreign guaranty association for unallocated loss adjustment expenses;
(2)Class 2. All claims under policies, including third-party claims and all claims of a guaranty association or foreign guaranty association. All claims under life insurance and annuity policies, whether for death proceeds, annuity proceeds, or investment values, shall be treated as loss claims. That portion of any loss, indemnification for which is provided by other benefits or advantages recovered by the claimant, shall not be included in this class other than benefits or advantages recovered or recoverable in discharge of familial obligation of support or by way of succession at death or as proceeds of life insurance or as gratuities. No payment by an employer to his or her employee shall be treated as a gratuity;
(3)Class 3. Claims of the federal government except those under Class 2;
(4)Class 4. Reasonable compensation to employees for services performed to the extent that such compensation does not exceed two months of monetary compensation and represents payment for services performed within one year before the filing of the petition for liquidation or, if rehabilitation preceded liquidation, within one year before the filing of the petition for rehabilitation. Principal officers and directors shall not be entitled to the benefit of this priority except as otherwise approved by the liquidator and the court. Such priority shall be in lieu of any other similar priority which may be authorized by law as to wages or compensation of employees;
(5)Class 5. Claims under nonassessable policies for unearned premium or other premium refunds and claims of general creditors, including claims of ceding and assuming companies in their capacity as such;
(6)Class 6. Claims of any state or local government except those under Class 2. Claims, including those of any governmental body for a penalty or forfeiture, shall be allowed in this class only to the extent of the pecuniary loss sustained from the act, transaction, or proceeding out of which the penalty or forfeiture arose with reasonable and actual costs occasioned thereby. The remainder of such claims shall be postponed to the class of claims established under paragraph (9) of this Code section;
(7)Class 7. Claims filed late or any other claims other than claims under paragraphs (8) and (9) of this Code section;
(8)Class 8. Surplus or contribution notes or similar obligations and premium refunds on assessable policies. Payments to members of domestic mutual insurance companies shall be limited in accordance with law; and
(9)Class 9. The claims of shareholders or other owners in their capacity as shareholders.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 140, eff. 7/1/2019.
