# § 33-37-52. Commissioner as ancillary receiver for insurer not domiciled in this state

(a) If a domiciliary liquidator has been appointed for an insurer not domiciled in this state, the Commissioner may file a petition with the superior court requesting appointment as ancillary receiver in this state:
  (1) If he or she finds that there are sufficient assets of the insurer located in this state to justify the appointment of an ancillary receiver; or
  (2) If the protection of creditors or policyholders in this state so requires.
(b) The court may issue an order appointing an ancillary receiver in whatever terms it shall deem appropriate. The filing or recording of the order with the appropriate clerk of the superior court in this state imparts the same notice as a deed, bill of sale, or other evidence of title duly filed or recorded with the clerk.
(c) When a domiciliary liquidator has been appointed in another state, then the ancillary receiver appointed in this state may, whenever necessary, aid and assist the domiciliary liquidator in recovering assets of the insurer located in this state. The ancillary receiver shall, as soon as practicable, liquidate from their respective securities those special deposit claims and secured claims which are proved and allowed in the ancillary proceedings in this state and shall pay the necessary expenses of the proceedings. He or she shall promptly transfer all remaining assets, books, accounts, and records to the domiciliary liquidator or his or her designee, at the direction of the domiciliary liquidator. Subject to this Code section, the ancillary receiver and his or her deputies shall have the same powers and be subject to the same duties with respect to the administration of assets as a liquidator of an insurer domiciled in this state.
(d) When a domiciliary liquidator has been appointed in this state, ancillary receivers appointed in other states shall have, as to assets and books, accounts, and other records in their respective states, corresponding rights, duties, and powers to those provided in subsection (c) of this Code section for ancillary receivers appointed in this state.
(e) If the Commissioner elects not to file a petition with the superior court requesting appointment as ancillary receiver in this state pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, the Commissioner may, notwithstanding the provisions of Code Sections 33-3-8 through 33-3-10 and Code Sections 33-12-8 and 33-12-9, transfer title and possession of all special deposits under his or her control to the domiciliary liquidator or his or her designee, at the direction of the domiciliary liquidator. Prior to transferring title and possession of such special deposits, the Commissioner may require the domiciliary liquidator to agree, in writing, to handle such deposits and special deposit claims in accordance with the statutes pursuant to which the special deposits were required and to any other requirements deemed necessary by the Commissioner.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 607,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2016.
