# § 33-37-18. Termination of policy coverage

(a) All policies, including bonds and other noncancelable business, other than life or accident and sickness insurance or annuities, in effect at the time of issuance of an order of liquidation shall continue in force only for the lesser of:
  (1) A period of 30 days from the date of entry of the liquidation orders;
  (2) The expiration of the policy coverage;
  (3) The date when the insured has replaced the insurance coverage with equivalent insurance in another insurer or otherwise terminated the policy;
  (4) The date on which the liquidator effects a transfer of the policy obligation pursuant to paragraph (9) or (10) of subsection (a) of Code Section 33-37-20; or
  (5) The date proposed by the liquidator and approved by the court to cancel coverage.
(b) An order of liquidation under Code Section 33-37-17 shall terminate coverages at the time specified in subsection (a) of this Code section for purposes of any other statute.
(c) Policies of life or accident and sickness insurance or annuities shall continue in force for such period and under such terms as is provided for by any applicable guaranty association or foreign guaranty association.
(d) Policies of life or accident and sickness insurance or annuities or any period or coverage of such policies not covered by a guaranty association or foreign guaranty association shall terminate under subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 136, eff. 7/1/2019.
