# § 33-37-33. Application for approval of proposal to disburse assets; notice

(a) Within 120 days of a final determination of insolvency of an insurer by a court of competent jurisdiction of this state, the liquidator shall make application to the court for approval of a proposal to disburse assets out of marshaled assets, from time to time as such assets become available, to a guaranty association or foreign guaranty association having obligations because of such insolvency. If the liquidator determines that there are insufficient assets to disburse, the application required by this Code section shall be considered satisfied by a filing by the liquidator stating the reasons for this determination.
(b) Such proposal shall at least include provisions for:
  (1) Reserving amounts for the payment of expenses of administration and the payment of claims of secured creditors, to the extent of the value of the security held, and claims falling within the priorities established in Classes 1 and 2 as provided in Code Section 33-37-41;
  (2) Disbursement of the assets marshaled to date and subsequent disbursement of assets as they become available;
  (3) Equitable allocation of disbursements to each of the guaranty associations and foreign guaranty associations entitled thereto;
  (4) The securing by the liquidator from each of the associations entitled to disbursements pursuant to this Code section of an agreement to return to the liquidator such assets, together with income earned on assets previously disbursed, as may be required to pay claims of secured creditors and claims falling within the priorities established in Code Section 33-37-41 in accordance with such priorities. No bond shall be required of any such association; and
  (5) A full report to be made by each association to the liquidator accounting for all assets so disbursed to the association, all disbursements made therefrom, any interest earned by the association on such assets, and any other matter as the court may direct.
(c) The liquidator's proposal shall provide for disbursements to the associations in amounts estimated at least equal to the claim payments under or to be made thereby for which such associations could assert a claim against the liquidator and shall further provide that if the assets available for disbursement from time to time do not equal or exceed the amount of such claim payments made or to be made by the association then disbursements shall be in the amount of available assets.
(d) The liquidator's proposal shall, with respect to an insolvent insurer writing life or accident and sickness insurance or annuities, provide for disbursements of assets to any guaranty association or any foreign guaranty association covering life or accident and sickness insurance or annuities or to any other entity or organization reinsuring, assuming, or guaranteeing policies or contracts of insurance under the acts creating such associations.
(e) Notice of such application shall be given to the association in and to the commissioners of insurance of each of the states. Any such notice shall be deemed to have been given when deposited in the United States mail to be dispatched by certified mail or first-class mail at least 30 days prior to submission of such application to the court. Action on the application may be taken by the court provided the above-required notice has been given and, provided, further, that the liquidator's proposal complies with paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 139, eff. 7/1/2019.
