# § 43-4-2. Georgia State Board of Architects and Interior Designers; composition; qualifications of members; terms of office; vacancies

There is created the Georgia State Board of Architects and Interior Designers, which shall be composed of nine appointed members. Six of the members shall be registered architects who hold a current license in this state and who shall be residents of this state. Two members shall be registered interior designers who are residents of this state and who have been interior designers for at least ten years immediately preceding the appointment and who shall have passed an examination approved by the board. One member shall be a resident of this state and shall have no connection whatsoever with the practice or profession of architecture or interior design. The members of the predecessor State Board of Architects including the interior designer members who were formerly only full voting members for purposes of Article 2 of this chapter in office on June 30, 2000, shall be members of the Georgia State Board of Architects and Interior Designers and shall serve out the remainder of their respective terms and until their successors are appointed and qualified. The citizen member who is not a practicing architect or interior designer may vote only on matters relating to administration and policy which do not directly relate to practical and scientific examination of architects or interior designers in this state. The Governor shall appoint successors to the present members of the board, as their respective terms of office expire, for a term of office of five years each. The successor members so appointed shall possess the qualifications specified in this Code section and shall be confirmed by the Senate as provided in Code Section 43-1-16. In case a successor is not appointed at the expiration of the term of any member, such member shall hold office until his or her successor has been duly appointed and qualified. Any vacancy occurring in the membership of the board shall be filled by the Governor for the unexpired term, and such member shall be confirmed by the Senate as provided in Code Section 43-1-16.
