# § 43-4-32. Application for certificate of registration; requirements; term of certificate; renewal

(a) Any person wishing to use the title "registered interior designer" shall apply to the board for a certificate of registration as a registered interior designer.
(b) Each applicant for certification as a registered interior designer shall meet the following requirements:
  (1) Is at least 21 years of age;
  (2) Has submitted a completed application as required by the board;
  (3) Has submitted the fees required by the board;
  (4) Provides proof of having passed the examination promulgated by the National Council for Interior Design Qualification or an examination approved by the board; and
  (5) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, provides proof that the applicant has acquired a minimum four-year degree or first professional degree conferred by a college or university whose program is accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board or by another national or regional accrediting organization recognized by the board in a program of study in architecture or in a program of study in interior design approved by the Council for Interior Design Accreditation or in a substantially equivalent program of study approved by the board.
(c) The examination requirement and education requirement specified in paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be waived by the board until June 30, 1996, for any applicant who provides proof satisfactory to the board that the applicant has been an interior designer for at least ten years immediately prior to the date of the application and who:
  (1) Provides proof of having passed the entire examination promulgated by the National Council for Interior Design Qualification or an examination approved by the board; or
  (2) Has a four-year degree conferred by a college or university and who passes an examination approved by the board on life safety and accessibility codes, which examination is passed after January 1, 1990, and prior to the application for a certificate of registration.
(d) A certificate of registration as a registered interior designer shall be valid for two years and shall be renewed biennially. An applicant for renewal of a certificate of registration shall pay a renewal fee and shall meet such continuing education requirements as the board may require by rule or regulation. The continuing education requirements shall not exceed 40 hours biennially.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 775,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2008.
