# § 43-4-11. Qualifications of applicants for examination or certificate of registration; regulatory authority

(a) Any person may apply to the board for such examinations as are required for certification under this article if qualified as set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section, or any person who has been registered as an architect by another jurisdiction may apply for a certificate of registration if qualified as set forth in subsection (c) of this Code section. No person shall be eligible for registration as an architect who has been found by the board to have committed any of the acts set forth in this article for which an architect's certificate might be revoked or suspended unless that individual establishes to the satisfaction of the board that he or she has fully reformed.
(b) The examinations shall be the examinations prepared and graded by the National Council of Architectural Registration Boards (NCARB). The candidate for examination shall submit to the board satisfactory evidence of one of the following qualifications:
  (1)
    (A)
      (i) A professional degree in architecture from a school or college approved by the National Architectural Accrediting Board; or
      (ii) Active participation in a National Council of Architectural Registration Boards accepted Integrated Path to Architectural Licensure option within a National Architectural Accrediting Board accredited professional degree program in architecture; and
    (B) Practical experience as the board, by rules and regulations uniformly applied, shall deem appropriate;
  (2) A minimum of ten years' practical experience, including academic training, following completion of high school or the equivalent thereof, as the board, by rules and regulations uniformly applied, shall deem appropriate. An individual who intends to qualify as a candidate for examination under the provisions of this paragraph shall notify the board of such intent in writing prior to July 1, 1985. After July 1, 1985, all candidates for examination shall meet the requirements of paragraph (1) of this subsection; provided, however, that those candidates and only those candidates who have met the requirements of this paragraph shall be admitted as a candidate for examination; or
  (3) A bachelor's degree in architectural engineering technology from a school or college in this state approved by the Accrediting Board for Engineering and Technology, or any other bachelor's degree with a substantial concentration in architecture approved by the board from a board approved school or college in this state, and at least six years of practical experience as the board, by regulations uniformly applied, shall deem appropriate. An individual who intends to qualify as a candidate for examination under the provisions of this paragraph shall notify the board of such intent in writing prior to July 1, 2004. After July 1, 2004, all candidates for examination shall meet the requirements of paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(c) The applicant for a certificate of registration who has been registered as an architect by another jurisdiction shall hold a National Council of Architectural Registration Boards certificate and a certificate of registration in such other jurisdiction, both of which shall be current and in good standing in order to meet the requirements of this subsection.
(d) The board may require applicants under subsection (c) of this Code section to provide such other evidence as the board may require to demonstrate knowledge of professional practice.
(e) No certificate of registration shall be issued to an applicant under this article, if he or she was a candidate for examination under the provisions of paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section, unless and until such applicant for certification shows the board satisfactory evidence of a professional degree in architecture from a school or college approved by the National Architectural Accrediting Board.
(f) The board may promulgate such rules and regulations as may be reasonable and necessary for the administration and enforcement of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 41,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 217,§ 2, eff. 5/24/2007.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 556, § 1, eff. 5/13/2004.
