# § 46-3-64. Requirements upon a retail electric customer utilizing solar technology connected to an electric system of an electric service provider

(a) For solar technology with a peak generating capacity of not more than 10 kilowatts for a residential application and not more than 100 kilowatts for a commercial application, the electric service provider may require the retail electric customer or solar financing agent to provide, at the retail electric customer's or solar financing agent's expense, all equipment necessary to meet applicable safety, power quality, and interconnection requirements established by the National Electrical Code, National Electrical Safety Code, Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, and Underwriters Laboratories, prior to interconnecting the solar technology to the electric service provider's electric system. If such applicable safety, power quality, and interconnection requirements are met, an electric service provider shall not require compliance with additional safety or performance standards, require the performance of or payment for additional tests, or require the purchase of additional liability insurance.
(b) For solar technology with a peak generating capacity of more than 10 kilowatts for a residential application and more than 100 kilowatts for a commercial application, the electric service provider may require compliance with additional requirements beyond those specified in subsection (a) of this Code section. Such additional requirements shall include only those necessary to protect public safety, power quality, and system reliability.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 300,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
