# § 46-3-52. Jurisdiction of commission over cogeneration facility the energy from which is used solely by operator

(1) "Bidirectional metering" means measuring the amount of electricity supplied by an electric service provider and the amount fed back to the electric service provider by the customer's distributed generation facility using the same meter.
(2) "Cogeneration facility" means a facility, other than a distributed generation facility, which produces electric energy, steam, or other forms of useful energy (such as heat) which are used for industrial, commercial, heating, or cooling purposes.
(3) "Commission" means the Georgia Public Service Commission.
(4) "Customer generator" means the owner and operator of a distributed generation facility.
(5) "Distributed generation facility" means a facility owned and operated by a customer of the electric service provider for the production of electrical energy that:
  (A) Uses a solar Photovoltaic system, fuel cell, or wind turbine;
  (B) Has a peak generating capacity of not more than 10kw for a residential application and 100kw for a commercial application;
  (C) Is located on the customer's premises;
  (D) Operates in parallel with the electric service provider's distribution facilities;
  (E) Connected to the electric service provider's distribution system on either side of the electric service provider's meter; and
  (F) Is intended primarily to offset part or all of the customer generator's requirements for electricity.
(6) "Electric membership corporation" means a corporation organized under Article 2 of this chapter.
(7) "Electric service provider" means any electric utility, electric membership corporation, or municipal electric utility that is engaged in the business of distributing electricity to retail electric customers in the state.
(8) "Electric supplier" means any electric utility, electric membership corporation furnishing wholesale service, any municipal electric utility or any other person which furnishes wholesale service to any municipality, and the Tennessee Valley Authority.
(9) "Electric utility" means any retail supplier of electricity whose rates are fixed by the commission.
(10) "Municipal electric utility" means a city or town that owns or operates an electric utility.
(11) "Person" means a natural person, corporation, trust, partnership, incorporated or unincorporated association, or any other legal entity.
(12) "Renewable energy sources" means energy supplied from technologies as approved in the Georgia Green Pricing Accreditation Program.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 352, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
