# § 46-3-67. Definitions

(1) "Commercial operations date" means the date on which a solar power facility generates electrical energy for sale to an electric supplier. Such term does not include the generation of electrical energy or other operations conducted before that date for purposes of maintenance or testing.
(2) "Electric supplier" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 46-3-3.
(3) "Financial assurance" means a surety or performance bond that:
  (A) Renews automatically; and
  (B) Is issued by a company that is listed on the United States Department of the Treasury's List of Certified Companies and that has a financial strength rating of at least an "A" as rated by A.M. Best Company, Inc.; Moody's Investors Service, Inc.; Standard and Poor's Corporation; or a similar rating agency.
(4) "Grantee" means a person who leases property from a landowner and who operates a solar power facility on said property.
(5) "Solar energy device" means a solar energy collector or solar energy system that provides for the collection of solar energy or the subsequent use of such energy as thermal, mechanical, or electrical energy.
(6) "Solar power facility" means a solar energy device that does not meet the definition of solar technology pursuant to Code Section 46-3-62, or the integrated collection of such devices, together with any equipment or other personal property and improvements under common ownership that are used to support the operation of such a solar energy device or solar energy devices, including, but not limited to, underground or aboveground electrical transmission or communications lines, electric transformers, battery storage facilities, telecommunications equipment, roads, meteorological towers, and maintenance yards.
(7) "Solar power facility agreement" means any lease agreement for real property in this state between a grantee and a landowner that authorizes the grantee to operate a solar power facility on the leased property.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 390,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
