# § 46-3-66. Construction and applicability

(a) Except as provided in subsection (d) of Code Section 46-3-63 and subsections (a) and (b) of Code Section 46-3-65, nothing in this part shall be construed as modifying the restrictions of Part 1 of this article on the sale, offer for sale, or distribution of retail electric service in this state.
(b) Nothing in this part shall be construed to create or alter rights in real property or to change any restrictions or regulations on the use of real property that may exist under any means, including, but not limited to, a covenant, contract, ordinance, or state or federal law.
(c) Nothing in this part shall be construed to restrict, affect, or diminish the ability of any county or municipality to adopt or enforce ordinances, permits, or regulations, or otherwise to exercise any lawful power under the Constitution or laws of this state, including, without limitation, those affecting zoning, land use, or the use of public rights of way.
(d) Nothing in this part shall be applied to impair any obligation or right under a contract entered into prior to the effective date of this part or any amendment to or extension of such contract.
(e) Nothing in this part shall be applied to any party to a wholesale electric power or transmission service contract entered into prior to the effective date of this part or to any original party to such contract that is subsequently amended or extended to the extent that the financing and installation of the solar technology would cause such party to be in breach of such contract or increase the costs of such contract by $100,000.00 or more. Any legal successor to substantially all rights and assets of a party shall also be considered a party under this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 300,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
