# § 46-3-458. Change of registered office or registered agent of foreign electric cooperative

(a) A foreign electric cooperative authorized to transact business in this state may change its registered office or change its registered agent, or both, upon filing in the office of the Secretary of State a statement setting forth:
  (1) The name of the foreign electric cooperative;
  (2) The address of its then registered office;
  (3) If the address of its registered office is to be changed, the new address of the registered office;
  (4) The name of its then registered agent;
  (5) If its registered agent is to be changed, the name of its successor registered agent and the written consent of such successor agent to his or its appointment; and
  (6) That the address of its registered office and the address of the business office of its registered agent, as changed, will be identical.
(b) Such statement shall be executed by an officer of the foreign electric cooperative and delivered to the Secretary of State. If the Secretary of State finds that such statement conforms to this article, he shall file such statement in his office; and upon such filing, the change of address of the registered office or the change of the registered agent, or both, as the case may be, shall become effective.
(c) A registered agent of a foreign electric cooperative may resign as such agent upon filing a written notice thereof with the Secretary of State. The appointment of such agent shall terminate 30 days after receipt of such notice by the Secretary of State. There shall be attached to such notice an affidavit of such agent, if an individual, or, if a corporation, of an officer thereof, that at least ten days prior to the date of filing such notice a written notice of the agent's intention to resign was mailed or delivered to the president, secretary, or treasurer of the foreign electric cooperative for which such agent is acting. Upon such resignation's becoming effective, the address of the business office of the resigned registered agent shall no longer be the address of the registered office of the foreign electric cooperative.
(d) A registered agent may change his business address and the address of the registered office of any foreign electric cooperative of which he is a registered agent to another place within the same county by filing a statement as required in subsection (a) of this Code section, except that such statement need be signed only by the registered agent and need not be responsive to paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of this Code section and must recite that a copy of the statement has been mailed or delivered to a representative of such foreign electric cooperative other than the notifying registered agent.
