# § 46-3-113. Number of members of authority; creation of Municipal Electric Committee of Georgia Membership Election Committee; designation of members; selection of officers; receiving of nominations, election and terms of first members of authority

(a) The authority shall consist of nine members. The first nine members shall be elected as provided in this Code section.
(b) On or before June 16, 1975, each of those political subdivisions which have, prior to such date, by proper resolution of their respective governing bodies, declared their intention to contract with the authority for the purchase of electric power and energy (other than for short-term purchases) shall designate one person, who shall be a resident of such political subdivision, as its representative on a body to be known as the Municipal Electric Authority of Georgia Membership Election Committee, provided that at least five political subdivisions have declared their intention to contract with the authority. All such resolutions of declaration of intention to contract with the authority shall be presented to the election committee at its first meeting, which shall be held in the office of the Georgia Municipal Association at 11:00 A.M. on Monday, June 22, 1975.
(c) At its first meeting, the election committee shall organize and shall elect a chairman and such other officers as may be desirable in the determination of the election committee. The election committee shall then determine the sufficiency of the resolutions presented to it and shall determine the number of votes (including fractions thereof) which each representative to the election committee shall be entitled to cast in accordance with Code Section 46-3-117. Nominations for membership on the authority shall then be received by the election committee prior to adjournment of its first meeting.
(d) The election committee shall then meet for the second time on Monday, June 29, 1975, at the same time and place to receive any other nominations to the authority that may be made. A vote shall then be taken; and the nine nominees receiving the largest number of votes cast by a quorum of the election committee, as such quorum is determined by subsection (c) of Code Section 46-3-117, shall be declared the first nine members of the authority. Insofar as may be consistent with the remaining provisions of this Code section, in the election of the first nine members, the three nominees receiving the highest number of votes shall be elected to terms of three years; the three nominees receiving the next highest number of votes shall be elected to terms of two years; and the three nominees receiving the next highest number of votes shall be elected to terms of one year. Any tie votes shall be resolved by lot in such manner as shall be prescribed by the election committee.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code section to the contrary, in the event it should be mathematically necessary in the election of the members of the authority for two members to be residents of the same political subdivision, then one of the two members who are residents of the same political subdivision shall be elected for an initial term of one year. In the event there are four political subdivisions from which two residents must be elected, one of the residents of one of such political subdivisions shall be elected for an initial term of two years.
