# § 46-3-459. Service of process on foreign electric cooperative authorized to transact business in this state

(a) The registered agent appointed pursuant to Code Section 46-3-458 by a foreign electric cooperative authorized to transact business in this state shall be an agent of such foreign electric cooperative upon whom any process, notice, or demand required or permitted by law to be served upon the foreign electric cooperative may be served in the manner provided by law for the service of a summons and complaint.
(b) Whenever a foreign electric cooperative doing business or having done business in this state shall fail to appoint or maintain a registered agent in this state, or whenever any such registered agent cannot with reasonable diligence be found at the registered office, or whenever the certificate of authority of a foreign electric cooperative shall be suspended or revoked, then the Secretary of State shall be an agent of such foreign electric cooperative upon whom any such process, notice, or demand may be served. Service on the Secretary of State of any such process, notice, or demand shall be made by delivering to and leaving with him, or with any person having charge of the corporation's division of his office, or with any other person or persons designated by the Secretary of State to receive such service, duplicate copies of such process, notice, or demand. In the event any such process, notice, or demand is served on the Secretary of State, he shall immediately cause one of such copies thereof to be forwarded by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, addressed to the foreign electric cooperative at its principal office in the jurisdiction under the laws of which it is incorporated. Any service so had on the Secretary of State shall be answerable not more than 30 days from the date so mailed by the Secretary of State.
(c) The Secretary of State shall keep a record of all processes, notices, and demands served upon him under this Code section and shall record therein the time of such service and his action with reference thereto.
(d) Nothing contained in this Code section shall limit or affect the right to serve any process, notice, or demand required or permitted by law to be served upon a foreign electric cooperative in any other manner permitted by law.
