# § 46-3-34. Utilities protection center; funding of activities; notice of work; delay; responsibility for completing safety requirements

(a) All utilities shall organize, participate as members in, and cooperate with the utilities protection center. In lieu of organizing a new center, if the organization defined as the Utilities Protection Center (UPC) in Code Section 25-9-3 undertakes to serve as the utilities protection center referred to in this part, it may do so and no duplicative center shall thereafter be established. The activities of the center relating to high-voltage lines shall be funded by all utilities.
(b) Where work is to be done, the person responsible for such work shall give notice to the utilities protection center during its regular business hours at least 72 hours, excluding weekends and holidays, prior to commencing such work and such notice shall:
  (1) Describe the tract or parcel of land upon which the work to be done is to take place with sufficient particularity to enable the owner or operator of the high-voltage lines to ascertain the precise tract or parcel of land involved;
  (2) State the name, address, and telephone number of the person who will be in charge of the work;
  (3) Describe the type of work to be engaged in by the person; and
  (4) Designate the date upon which the work will commence and will be completed.
(c) After receipt of the notice required by subsection (b) of this Code section, the owner or operator of the high-voltage line shall contact the person whose name is given as required by paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section within a reasonable time, so that appropriate satisfactory arrangements can be made for the completion of the safety precautions required by Code Section 46-3-33, including coordination of work schedules and payment of costs required to effect such safety precautions. Upon completion of such arrangements, the owner or operator of such high-voltage line shall effect such safety precautions within a reasonable time.
(d) If, after such arrangements are made, a delay in commencing the work is encountered, then the person responsible for the work shall be required to give a new notice as specified in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(e) The person responsible for the work shall be responsible to assure that the safety requirements of Code Section 46-3-33 are completed prior to the commencement of any such work.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 777,§ 2, eff. 9/1/2022.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 46, eff. 2/12/2001.
