# § 46-3-540. Civil penalties for actions or omissions by electric membership corporations and foreign electric cooperatives

(a) Each electric membership corporation and each foreign electric cooperative that fails or refuses to file its annual report for any year shall be subject to a civil penalty of $25.00 for each year in which it so fails or refuses.
(b) Each foreign electric cooperative that transacts business in this state without authority shall, after 30 days, be subject to a civil penalty of $500.00 for each year or part thereof during which it so transacts business.
(c) The Attorney General, at the direction of the Secretary of State, shall bring proceedings in the name of the state to enforce the penalties imposed by this Code section.
(d) When an electric membership corporation or foreign electric cooperative fails or refuses to answer truthfully and fully, within the time prescribed by Code Section 46-3-521, interrogatories propounded by the Secretary of State in accordance with Code Section 46-3-521, the Secretary of State shall certify such fact to the Attorney General and shall concurrently mail to the electric membership corporation or foreign electric cooperative at its registered office, or, if there is no registered office, at its last known address as shown by the records of the Secretary of State, a notice that such certification has been made, together with a statement of the facts pertinent thereto. Within 60 days of the date of such certification, the Attorney General shall apply in the name of the state to the superior court of the county where the registered office or principal office of the electric membership corporation, as shown by the records of the Secretary of State, is situated for an order compelling the electric membership corporation to answer the interrogatories truthfully and fully, unless prior to the filing of such application the electric membership corporation shall have so answered the interrogatories. If the electric membership corporation fails or refuses to comply with the order within 30 days from the date of its entry, such failure or refusal may be considered a contempt of that court; and the electric membership corporation may be fined therefor in any amount not exceeding $500.00.
(e) Each foreign electric cooperative that fails to comply with Code Section 46-3-460 shall be subject to a civil penalty of $50.00 for each such violation.
