# § 46-3-63. Financing of solar technology; electric service provider prohibited from interfering with use of solar technology; electric service provider not liable for certain acts

(a) Solar technology at or below the capacity limit may be financed by a retail electric customer through a solar financing agent utilizing a solar energy procurement agreement, provided that:
  (1) Such solar technology and the installation thereof complies with all applicable state laws and all applicable county and municipal ordinances and permitting requirements; and
  (2) The retail electric customer or the solar financing agent gives notice to the electric service provider serving the premises at least 30 days prior to operation of such solar technology.
(b) No electric service provider shall prevent or otherwise interfere with the installation, operation, or financing of solar technology by a retail electric customer through a solar financing agent pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, except that an electric service provider may require the retail electric customer to meet applicable safety, power quality, and interconnection requirements as provided in Code Section 46-3-64.
(c) An electric service provider not acting as a solar financing agent at the specific property where the liability arises shall not be liable for any loss of assets, injury, or death that may arise from, be caused by, or relate to:
  (1) The act, or failure to act, of the retail electric customer or the solar financing agent relating to the solar technology;
  (2) The solar energy procurement agreement or any other agreement between the retail electric customer and the solar financing agent; or
  (3) The solar technology.
(d) A solar financing agent which is not an electric service provider or affiliate may provide solar energy procurement agreements authorized by this part, notwithstanding the restrictions of Part 1 of this article.
(e) A property with multiple premises may have multiple solar technologies financed by solar energy procurement agreements; provided, however, that a single solar technology is not connected to multiple premises and that the cumulative capacity of solar technologies connected to a premises shall not exceed the capacity limit. Solar technology installed to serve one premises shall only generate electric energy that is used on and by such premises or fed back to an electric service provider.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 300,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
