# § 46-3-298. Place, time, and notice of directors' meetings; waiver of notice; adjournment of meetings; notice of adjournment; manner of calling meetings

(a) Unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws otherwise provide, meetings of the board of directors, whether regular or special, may be held either within or outside of this state. The time and place for holding meetings of the board of directors may be fixed by or under the bylaws or, if not so fixed, by the board.
(b) Regular meetings of the board of directors may be held with or without notice, as prescribed in the articles of incorporation or bylaws or in a standing resolution of the board of directors. Special meetings of the board of directors may be held upon such notice as is prescribed in the articles of incorporation or the bylaws. Unless otherwise prescribed in the articles of incorporation or bylaws, written notice of the time and place of special meetings of the board of directors shall be given to each director either by personal delivery or by mail, telegram, or cablegram at least two days before the meeting.
(c) Notice of a meeting of the board of directors need not be given to any director who signs a waiver of notice either before or after the meeting. Attendance of a director at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting and waiver of any and all objections to the place of the meeting, the time of the meeting, or the manner in which it has been called or convened, except when a director states, at the beginning of the meeting, any such objection or objections to the transaction of business.
(d) Neither the business to be transacted at nor the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the board of directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting unless required by the articles of incorporation or bylaws.
(e) A majority of the directors present, whether or not a quorum exists, may adjourn any meeting of the board of directors to another time and place. Unless the articles of incorporation or bylaws otherwise provide, notice of any such adjourned meeting shall be given to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment and, unless the time and place of the adjourned meeting are announced at the time of the adjournment, to the other directors.
(f) Meetings of the board of directors may be called by the chairman of the board, by the president, by 25 percent of the directors then in office, or by any other person or persons authorized by the articles of incorporation or bylaws.
