# § 50-13-40. Office created; chief state administrative law judge

(a) There is created within the executive branch of state government the Office of State Administrative Hearings. The office shall be independent of state administrative agencies and shall be responsible for impartial administration of administrative hearings in accordance with this article. The office shall be assigned for administrative purposes only, as that term is defined in Code Section 50-4-3, to the Department of Administrative Services.
(b) The head of the office shall be the chief state administrative law judge who shall be appointed by the Governor, shall serve a term of six years, shall be eligible for reappointment, and may be removed by the Governor for cause. The chief state administrative law judge shall have been admitted to the practice of law in this state for a period of at least five years. The chief state administrative law judge shall be in the unclassified service as defined by Code Section 45-20-2 and shall receive a salary to be determined by the Governor. All successors shall be appointed in the same manner as the original appointment and vacancies in office shall be filled in the same manner for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(c) The chief state administrative law judge shall promulgate rules and regulations and establish procedures to carry out the provisions of this article.
(d) The chief state administrative law judge shall have the power to employ clerical personnel and court reporters necessary to assist in the performance of his or her duties.
(e)
  (1) The chief state administrative law judge shall have the power to employ full-time assistant administrative law judges who shall exercise the powers conferred upon the chief state administrative law judge in all administrative cases assigned to them. Each assistant administrative law judge shall have been admitted to the practice of law in this state for a period of at least three years. The chief state administrative law judge may establish different levels of administrative law judge positions and the compensation for such positions shall be determined by the chief state administrative law judge.
  (2) The chief state administrative law judge may appoint a special assistant administrative law judge on a temporary or case basis as may be necessary for the proper performance of the duties of the office, pursuant to a fee schedule established in advance by the chief state administrative law judge. A special assistant administrative law judge shall have the same qualifications and authority as a full-time assistant administrative law judge.
  (3) The chief state administrative law judge may designate in writing a qualified full-time employee of an agency other than an agency directly connected with the proceeding to conduct a specified hearing, but such appointment shall only be with the prior consent of the employee's agency. Such employee shall then serve as a special designated assistant administrative law judge for the purposes of the specific hearing and shall not be entitled to any additional pay for this service.
  (4) When the character of the hearing requires utilization of a hearing officer with special skill and technical expertise in the field, the chief state administrative law judge may so certify in writing and appoint as a special lay assistant administrative law judge a person who is not a member of the bar of this state or otherwise not qualified under this Code section. Such appointment shall specify in writing the reasons such special skill is required and the qualifications of the appointed individual.
  (5) The chief state administrative law judge may designate a class of hearings for which individuals with the necessary skill and training need not meet the qualifications of paragraphs (1) through (4) of this subsection. These full-time associate administrative law judges shall exercise the powers conferred upon the chief state administrative judge in the class of administrative cases assigned to them. The chief state administrative law judge shall determine the compensation for such positions.
(f) The chief state administrative law judge and any administrative law judge employed on a full-time basis:
  (1) shall not otherwise engage in the practice of law; and
  (2) shall not, except in the performance of his or her duties in a contested case, render legal advice or assistance to any state board, bureau, commission, department, agency, or officer.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-106, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
