# § 16-11-220. Definitions

(1) "Critical infrastructure" means publicly or privately owned facilities, systems, functions, or assets, whether physical or virtual, providing or distributing services for the benefit of the public, including, but not limited to, energy, fuel, water, agriculture, health care, finance, communication, or any other vital public service.
(2) "Domestic terrorism" means any felony violation of, or attempt to commit a felony violation of the laws of this state which, as part of a single unlawful act or a series of unlawful acts which are interrelated by distinguishing characteristics, is intended to cause serious bodily harm, kill any individual or group of individuals, or disable or destroy critical infrastructure, a state or government facility, or a public transportation system when such disability or destruction results in major economic loss, and is intended to:
  (A) Intimidate the civilian population of this state or any of its political subdivisions;
  (B) Alter, change, or coerce the policy of the government of this state or any of its political subdivisions by intimidation or coercion; or
  (C) Affect the conduct of the government of this state or any of its political subdivisions by use of destructive devices, assassination, or kidnapping.
(3) "Public transportation system" means all facilities, conveyances, and instrumentalities, whether publicly or privately owned, that are used in or for publicly available services for the transportation of individuals or cargo.
(4) "Serious bodily harm" means harm to the body of another by depriving him or her of a member of his or her body, by rendering a member of his or her body useless, or by seriously disfiguring his or her body or a member thereof.
(5) "State or government facility" means any permanent or temporary facility or conveyance that is used or occupied by representatives of this state or any of its political subdivisions, by the legislature, by the judiciary, or by officials or employees of this state or any of its political subdivisions.
(6) "Vital public service" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 16-7-22.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 30,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 208,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2017.
