# § 16-11-103. Discharge of gun or pistol near public highway; penalty

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Firearm" means any handgun, rifle, or shotgun.
  (2) "Public highway" means every public street, road, and highway in this state.
  (3) "Sport shooting range" means an area designated and operated by a person or entity for the sport shooting of firearms, target practice, trapshooting, skeet shooting, or shooting sporting clays and not available for such use by the general public without payment of a fee, membership contribution, or dues or without the invitation of an authorized person, or any area so designated and operated by a unit of government, regardless of the terms of admission thereto.
  (4) "Unit of government" means any of the departments, agencies, authorities, or political subdivisions of the state, cities, municipal corporations, townships, or villages and any of their respective departments, agencies, or authorities.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, it shall be unlawful for any person, without legal justification, to discharge a firearm on or within 50 yards of a public highway.
(c) This Code section shall not apply to a discharge of a firearm which occurs within 50 yards of a public highway if such discharge is shielded from the view of a traveler on the public highway and occurs at:
  (1) An indoor or outdoor sport shooting range;
  (2) Facilities used for firearm or hunting safety courses sponsored by a unit of government, nonprofit corporation, or commercial enterprise; or
  (3) The business location of any person, firm, retail dealer, wholesale dealer, pawnbroker, or corporation licensed as a firearm dealer.
(d) Any person who violates subsection (b) of the Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 16, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 509,§ 1, eff. 4/15/2014.
