# § 16-11-130. Exemptions from Code Sections 16-11-126 through 16-11-127.2

(a) Except to the extent provided for in subsection (c.1) of this Code section, Code Sections 16-11-126 through 16-11-127.2 shall not apply to or affect any of the following persons if such persons are employed in the offices listed below or when authorized by federal or state law, regulations, or order:
  (1) Peace officers, as such term is defined in paragraph (11) of Code Section 16-1-3, and retired peace officers so long as they remain certified whether employed by the state or a political subdivision of the state or another state or a political subdivision of another state but only if such other state provides a similar privilege for the peace officers of this state;
  (2) Wardens, superintendents, and keepers of correctional institutions, jails, or other institutions for the detention of persons accused or convicted of an offense;
  (3) Persons in the military service of the state or of the United States;
  (4) Persons employed in fulfilling defense contracts with the government of the United States or agencies thereof when possession of the weapon or long gun is necessary for manufacture, transport, installation, and testing under the requirements of such contract;
  (5) District attorneys, investigators employed by and assigned to a district attorney's office, assistant district attorneys, attorneys or investigators employed by the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia, and any retired district attorney, assistant district attorney, district attorney's investigator, or attorney or investigator retired from the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia, if such employee is retired in good standing and is receiving benefits under Title 47 or is retired in good standing and receiving benefits from a county or municipal retirement system;
  (6) State court solicitors-general; investigators employed by and assigned to a state court solicitor-general's office; assistant state court solicitors-general; the corresponding personnel of any city court expressly continued in existence as a city court pursuant to Article VI, Section X, Paragraph I, subparagraph (5) of the Constitution; and the corresponding personnel of any civil court expressly continued as a civil court pursuant to said provision of the Constitution;
  (7) Those employees of the State Board of Pardons and Paroles when specifically designated and authorized in writing by the members of the State Board of Pardons and Paroles to carry a weapon or long gun;
  (8) The Attorney General and those members of his or her staff whom he or she specifically authorizes in writing to carry a weapon or long gun;
  (9) Community supervision officers employed by and under the authority of the Department of Community Supervision when specifically designated and authorized in writing by the commissioner of community supervision;
  (10) Public safety directors of municipal corporations;
  (11) Explosive ordnance disposal technicians, as such term is defined by Code Section 16-7-80, and persons certified as provided in Code Section 35-8-25 to handle animals trained to detect explosives, while in the performance of their duties;
  (12) Federal judges, Justices of the Supreme Court, Judges of the Court of Appeals, judges of superior, state, probate, juvenile, and magistrate courts, full-time judges of municipal and city courts, permanent part-time judges of municipal and city courts, and administrative law judges;
  (12.1) Former federal judges, Justices of the Supreme Court, Judges of the Court of Appeals, judges of superior, state, probate, juvenile, and magistrate courts, full-time judges of municipal and city courts, permanent part-time judges of municipal courts, and administrative law judges who are retired from their respective offices, provided that such judge or Justice would otherwise be qualified to be issued a weapons carry license;
  (12.2) Former federal judges, Justices of the Supreme Court, Judges of the Court of Appeals, judges of superior, state, probate, juvenile, and magistrate courts, full-time judges of municipal and city courts, permanent part-time judges of municipal courts, and administrative law judges who are no longer serving in their respective office, provided that he or she served as such judge or Justice for more than 24 months; and provided, further, that such judge or Justice would otherwise be qualified to be issued a weapons carry license;
  (13) United States Attorneys and Assistant United States Attorneys;
  (14) County medical examiners and coroners and their sworn officers employed by county government;
  (15) Clerks of the superior courts; and
  (16) Constables employed by a magistrate court of this state.
(b) Except to the extent provided for in subsection (c.1) of this Code section, Code Sections 16-11-126 through 16-11-127.2 shall not apply to or affect persons who at the time of their retirement from service with the Department of Community Supervision were community supervision officers, when specifically designated and authorized in writing by the commissioner of community supervision.
(c)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "courthouse" means a building or annex occupied by judicial courts and containing rooms in which judicial proceedings are held.
  (2) Except to the extent provided for in subsection (c.1) of this Code section, Code Sections 16-11-126 through 16-11-127.2 shall not apply to or affect any:
    (A) Sheriff, retired sheriff, deputy sheriff, or retired deputy sheriff if such retired sheriff or deputy sheriff is eligible to receive or is receiving benefits under the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund provided under Chapter 17 of Title 47, the Sheriffs' Retirement Fund of Georgia provided under Chapter 16 of Title 47, or any other public retirement system established under the laws of this state for service as a law enforcement officer;
    (B) Member of the Georgia State Patrol, agent of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, retired member of the Georgia State Patrol, or retired agent of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation if such retired member or agent is receiving benefits under the Employees' Retirement System;
    (C) Full-time law enforcement chief executive engaging in the management of a county, municipal, state, state authority, or federal law enforcement agency in the State of Georgia, including any college or university law enforcement chief executive who is registered or certified by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council; or retired law enforcement chief executive who formerly managed a county, municipal, state, state authority, or federal law enforcement agency in the State of Georgia, including any college or university law enforcement chief executive who was registered or certified at the time of his or her retirement by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council, if such retired law enforcement chief executive is receiving benefits under the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund provided under Chapter 17 of Title 47 or is retired in good standing and receiving benefits from a county, municipal, State of Georgia, state authority, or federal retirement system;
    (D) Police officer of any county, municipal, state, state authority, or federal law enforcement agency in the State of Georgia, including any college or university police officer who is registered or certified by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council, or retired police officer of any county, municipal, state, state authority, or federal law enforcement agency in the State of Georgia, including any college or university police officer who was registered or certified at the time of his or her retirement by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council, if such retired police officer is receiving benefits under the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund provided under Chapter 17 of Title 47 or is retired in good standing and receiving benefits from a county, municipal, State of Georgia, state authority, or federal retirement system; or
    (E) Person who is a citizen of this state and:
      (i) Has retired with at least ten years of aggregate service as a law enforcement officer with powers of arrest under the laws of any state of the United States or of the United States;
      (ii) Separated from service in good standing, as determined by criteria established by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council, from employment with his or her most recent law enforcement agency; and
      (iii) Possesses on his or her person an identification card for retired law enforcement officers as issued by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council; provided, however, that such person meets the standards for the issuance of such card as provided for by the council, including, but not limited to, maintenance of qualification in firearms training. In addition, any such sheriff, retired sheriff, deputy sheriff, retired deputy sheriff, member or retired member of the Georgia State Patrol, agent or retired agent of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, officer or retired officer of the Department of Natural Resources, active or retired law enforcement chief executive, person who is a retired law enforcement officer as provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, or other law enforcement officer referred to in this subsection shall be authorized to carry a handgun on or off duty anywhere within this state, including, but not limited to, in a courthouse except to the extent provided for in subsection (c.1) of this Code section, and Code Sections 16-11-126 through 16-11-127.2 shall not apply to the carrying of such firearms.
(c.1)
  (1) As used in the subsection, the term:
    (A) "Active" means nonretired.
    (B) "Courthouse" means a building or annex occupied by judicial courts and containing rooms in which judicial proceedings are held.
    (C) "Law enforcement agency" means sheriffs or any unit, organ, or department of this state, or a subdivision or municipality thereof, whose functions by law include the enforcement of criminal or traffic laws; the preservation of public order; the protection of life and property; the prevention, detection, or investigation of crime; or court security that is providing security for a courthouse.
    (D) "Law enforcement personnel" means sheriffs or deputy sheriffs or peace officers employed by a law enforcement agency.
  (2)
    (A) Pursuant to a security plan implemented by law enforcement personnel, including as provided for under a comprehensive plan as provided for in subsection (a) of Code Section 15-16-10, the law enforcement agency with jurisdiction over a courthouse may provide for facilities or the means for the holding of weapons carried by persons enumerated under this Code section, except as provided for in paragraph (3) of this subsection, provided that ingress to such courthouse is actively restricted or screened by law enforcement personnel and such facilities or means are located in the immediate proximity of the area which is restricted or screened by such law enforcement personnel.
    (B) If the requirements of this paragraph are met, the persons enumerated under this Code section shall, except as provided for in paragraph (3) of this subsection, upon request of law enforcement personnel place his or her weapons in such holding with law enforcement personnel while such persons are within the restricted or screened area. Upon request of any person enumerated under this Code section, in preparation for his or her exit from the restricted or screened area, law enforcement personnel shall immediately provide for the return of the person's weapons which are in holding.
  (3) Notwithstanding a security plan implemented by law enforcement personnel, including as provided for under a comprehensive plan as provided for in subsection (a) of Code Section 15-16-10, active law enforcement officers referred to in subsection (c) of this Code section shall be authorized to carry their service handguns and weapons in any courthouse if they are wearing the assigned uniform of their law enforcement office or have the official badge and identification credentials issued to them by their law enforcement office displayed and plainly visible on their person while in the performance of their official duties.
(d) A prosecution based upon a violation of Code Section 16-11-126 or 16-11-127 need not negative any exemptions.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 596,§ 9, eff. 4/12/2022.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 217,§ 7, eff. 5/8/2017.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 20,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 379,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-28, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 604,§ 1-8, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 124,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 643,§ 2-7, eff. 6/4/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 564,§ 16, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 623,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 9, § 16, eff. 5/14/2003.
