# § 16-11-202. Illegal alien defined; offense of inducing an illegal alien to enter state; penalties

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "illegal alien" means a person who is verified by the federal government to be present in the United States in violation of federal immigration law.
(b) A person who is acting in violation of another criminal offense and who knowingly induces, entices, or assists an illegal alien to enter into this state, when such person knows that the person being induced, enticed, or assisted to enter into this state is an illegal alien, shall be guilty of the offense of inducing an illegal alien to enter into this state.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (d) of this Code section, for a first offense, a person convicted of inducing an illegal alien to enter into this state shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment not to exceed 12 months, a fine not to exceed $1,000.00, or both. For a second or subsequent conviction of inducing an illegal alien to enter into this state, a person shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment of not less than one or more than five years, a fine of not less than $5,000.00 or more than $20,000.00, or both.
(d) A person who commits the offense of inducing an illegal alien to enter into this state who does so with the intent of making a profit or receiving any thing of value shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment of not less than one or more than five years, a fine of not less than $5,000.00 or more than $20,000.00, or both.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 252,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2011.
