# § 16-11-39.1. Harassing communications; venue; separate offenses; impact on free speech

(a) A person commits the offense of harassing communications if such person:
  (1) Contacts another person repeatedly via telecommunication, e-mail, text messaging, or any other form of electronic communication for the purpose of harassing, molesting, threatening, or intimidating such person or the family of such person;
  (2) Threatens bodily harm via telecommunication, e-mail, text messaging, or any other form of electronic communication;
  (3) Telephones another person and intentionally fails to hang up or disengage the connection; or
  (4) Knowingly permits any device used for telecommunication, e-mail, text messaging, or any other form of electronic communication under such person's control to be used for any purpose prohibited by this subsection.
(b) Any person who commits the offense of harassing communications shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c) The offense of harassing communications shall be considered to have been committed in the county where:
  (1) The defendant was located when he or she placed the telephone call or transmitted, sent, or posted an electronic communication; or
  (2) The telephone call or electronic communication was received.
(d) Any violation of this Code section shall constitute a separate offense and shall not merge with any other crimes set forth in this title.
(e) This Code section shall not apply to constitutionally protected speech.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 40,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
