# § 16-11-125.1. Definitions

(1) "Handgun" means a firearm of any description, loaded or unloaded, from which any shot, bullet, or other missile can be discharged by an action of an explosive where the length of the barrel, not including any revolving, detachable, or magazine breech, does not exceed 12 inches; provided, however, that the term "handgun" shall not include a gun which discharges a single shot of 0.46 centimeter or less in diameter.
(2) "Knife" means a cutting instrument designed for the purpose of offense and defense consisting of a blade that is greater than 12 inches in length which is fastened to a handle.
(2.1) "Lawful weapons carrier" means any person who is licensed or eligible for a license pursuant to Code Section 16-11-129 and who is not otherwise prohibited by law from possessing a weapon or long gun, any resident of any other state who would otherwise be eligible to obtain a license pursuant to such Code section but for the residency requirement, and any person licensed to carry a weapon in any other state.
(3) "License holder" means a person who holds a valid weapons carry license.
(4) "Long gun" means a firearm with a barrel length of at least 18 inches and overall length of at least 26 inches designed or made and intended to be fired from the shoulder and designed or made to use the energy of the explosive in a fixed:
  (A) Shotgun shell to fire through a smooth bore either a number of ball shot or a single projectile for each single pull of the trigger or from which any shot, bullet, or other missile can be discharged; or
  (B) Metallic cartridge to fire only a single projectile through a rifle bore for each single pull of the trigger; provided, however, that the term "long gun" shall not include a gun which discharges a single shot of 0.46 centimeter or less in diameter.
(5) "Weapon" means a knife or handgun.
(6) "Weapons carry license" or "license" means a license issued pursuant to Code Section 16-11-129.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 596,§ 4, eff. 4/12/2022.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 562,§ 16, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 217,§ 3, eff. 5/8/2017.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 643,§ 1-1, eff. 6/4/2010.
