# § 24-13-94. Procedure for compelling an out-of-state witness to attend criminal or grand jury proceedings

(a) If a person in any state which by its laws has made provision for commanding persons within its borders to attend and testify in criminal prosecutions or grand jury investigations commenced or about to commence in this state is a material witness in a prosecution pending in a court of record in this state or in a grand jury investigation which has commenced or is about to commence a judge of such court may issue a certificate under the seal of the court stating these facts and specifying the number of days the witness will be required. The certificate may include a recommendation that the witness be taken into immediate custody and delivered to an officer of this state to assure attendance in this state. This certificate shall be presented to a judge of a court of record in the county in which the witness is found.
(b) If the witness is summoned to attend and testify in this state, the witness shall be tendered the sum of 45¢ a mile for each mile by the ordinarily traveled route to and from the court where the prosecution is pending and $25.00 for each day that the witness is required to travel and attend as a witness. A witness who has appeared in accordance with the provisions of the summons shall not be required to remain within this state for a longer period of time than the period mentioned in the certificate, unless otherwise ordered by the court. If such witness, after coming into this state, fails without good cause to attend and testify as directed in the summons, the witness shall be punished in the manner provided for in Code Section 24-13-26.

## History

Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2013.
