# § 35-10-3. Definitions

(1) "Badge" means any official badge used in the past or present by members of municipal or county police departments.
(2) "Chief of police" means the chief of police for any municipal or county police department.
(3) "Department" means any municipal or county police department.
(4) "Director of public safety" means the director of public safety for any municipal or county police department.
(5) "Emblem" means any official patch or other emblem worn currently or formerly or used by the department to identify the department or its employees.
(6) "Local governing authority" means, with respect to a county, the governing authority of the county and, with respect to a municipality, the governing authority of the municipality.
(7) "Person" means any person, corporation, organization, or political subdivision of this state.
(8) "Willful violator" means any person who knowingly violates the provisions of this chapter. Any person who violates this chapter after being advised in writing by the local governing authority that such person's activity is in violation of this chapter shall be considered a willful violator and shall be considered in willful violation of this chapter. Any person whose agent or representative is a willful violator and who has knowledge of the violation by the agent or representative shall also be considered a willful violator and in willful violation of this chapter, unless upon learning of the violation he or she immediately terminates the agency or other relationship with such violator.
