# § 45-7-9. Compensation for line-of-duty injuries of full-time state employees; exceptions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Agency" means every state department, agency, board, bureau, commission, and authority, except the Department of Transportation.
  (2) "Full-time" means an employee who regularly works 30 hours or more each week.
  (3) "Injured in the line of duty" means an injury which arises out of or in the course of employment. Going to or from work shall not be considered in the line of duty.
  (4) "State employee" means a full-time employee of an agency.
(b) Any state employee who becomes physically disabled as a result of a physical injury incurred in the line of duty and caused by a willful act of violence committed by a person other than a fellow employee shall be entitled to receive compensation as provided in this Code section.
(c) Any person injured in the line of duty as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section shall continue to receive his regular compensation for the period of time that the employee or officer is physically unable to perform the duties of his employment; provided, however, that such benefits provided in this Code section shall not be granted for injuries resulting from a single incident for more than a total of 180 working days. An employee, firefighter, or officer shall be required to submit to his department head satisfactory evidence of such disability.
(d) Benefits made available under this Code section shall be subordinate to any workers' compensation benefits which the employee is awarded and shall be limited to the difference between the amount of workers' compensation benefits actually paid and the amount of the employee's regular compensation.
(e) Any employee of the Department of Corrections, employee of the Department of Community Supervision, employee of the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, employee of the Department of Natural Resources, employee of the Department of Revenue, or law enforcement officer who qualifies for disability allowances pursuant to Code Section 47-2-221 shall not be entitled to any benefits provided in this Code section.
(f) This Code section shall not apply to employees of the Department of Transportation covered by Code Section 32-2-7.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-93, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 787, § 4, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 952, § 11, eff. 7/1/2002.
