# § 45-7-7. Compensation and allowances of certain officials not to be changed without giving public notice

(a) The compensation or allowances of the officials listed in subsection (b) of this Code section shall not be changed by the governing board or body having the authority to do so unless public notice of such proposed action and amount shall have been given at least 30 days prior to the date such board or body shall consider such action and unless notice of such proposed change shall have likewise been given to the Governor by the board or body at least 30 days prior to the date of such proposed change.
(b) Subsection (a) of this Code section shall apply to the compensation and allowances of the commissioner of community affairs, the director of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia, the director of the State Forestry Commission, the director of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, the executive director of the Georgia Franchise Practices Commission, the commissioner of human services, the commissioner of economic development, the commissioner of natural resources, the commissioner of public safety, the chancellor of the University System of Georgia, the president or executive director of the Georgia Student Finance Commission, the executive director of the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission, the executive secretary-treasurer of the Teachers Retirement System of Georgia, the commissioner of transportation, and the executive director of the State Ethics Commission.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 340,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 680,§ 27, eff. 1/10/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 114,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 15, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, eff. 4/18/2002.
