# § 45-7-21. Expense allowance and travel cost reimbursement for members of certain boards and commissions

(a) Each member of the boards and commissions enumerated in this Code section shall receive the same expense allowance per day as that received by a member of the General Assembly for each day such member of a board or commission is in attendance at a meeting of such board or commission, plus reimbursement for actual transportation costs while traveling by public carrier or the legal mileage rate for the use of a personal automobile in connection with such attendance. The expense allowance and reimbursement provided for in this Code section shall be paid in lieu of any per diem, allowance, or other remuneration now received by any such member for such attendance. The existing law relative to any limitation on the number of meeting days and remuneration for service on committees or subcommittees of any such board or commission shall remain in effect. The boards and commissions to which this Code section shall be applicable are as follows:
  (1) State Board of Education;
  (2) Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia;
  (2.1) Board of Community Supervision;
  (2.2) Board of Public Safety;
  (3) Board of Corrections;
  (4) Board of Economic Development;
  (5) Board of Natural Resources;
  (6) Georgia Emergency Communications Authority;
  (7) Dental Education Board;
  (8) Georgia Student Finance Commission;
  (9) Veterans Service Board;
  (10) Georgia Agricultural Exposition Authority;
  (11) Georgia Board of Health Care Workforce;
  (12) Georgia Music Hall of Fame Authority;
  (13) Georgia Sports Hall of Fame Authority;
  (14) Georgia Rail Passenger Authority;
  (15) State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia; and
  (16) Civil War Commission.
(a.1) Each member of any state board whose membership is elected wholly by votes of the members of the House of Representatives and Senate shall receive the same per diem and transportation costs as that received by a member of the General Assembly for each day of actual attendance at meetings of such board and the committee meetings of such boards.
(b) Whenever this Code section or any other law of this state provides that members of any board, commission, or other body shall receive the same daily expense allowance as members of the General Assembly, whether by specific reference to this Code section or any other law or by a more general reference, the members of such board, commission, or other body shall receive a daily expense allowance of $105.00. Such $105.00 amount shall apply for members of such boards, commissions, and other bodies, regardless of whether the amount actually received by members of the General Assembly under Code Section 28-1-8 is more or less than $105.00. The provisions of this subsection shall control over any conflicting provisions of any other earlier enacted law.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 296,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 75,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 50,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 436,§ 3-2, eff. 1/1/2019.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 398,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-94, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 113,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 45, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 569, § 16, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 292, eff. 7/1/2001.
