# § 45-7-32. Unlawful use of travel advance received from public funds for nongovernmental purposes; fraudulent request for reimbursement of expenses; penalty for violations

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to use any travel advance received from public funds for nongovernmental purposes or to submit or approve, knowingly or through willful and wanton neglect, a fraudulent request to the state for reimbursement of expenses.
(b) Any person who, in violation of subsection (a) of this Code section, uses any travel advance for nongovernmental purposes or submits or approves, knowingly or through willful and wanton neglect, a fraudulent request for reimbursement of expenses valued in the aggregate at less than $500.00 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature which shall be punishable by not more than 12 months' imprisonment and a fine not to exceed $5,000.00. In addition to the foregoing criminal penalties, any such person shall also be subject to immediate termination of state employment and shall owe restitution to the state equal to the amount of such misappropriated travel advances or fraudulent reimbursements, plus interest to be assessed at a rate of 12 percent per annum to be calculated from the date each misappropriated travel advance or fraudulent reimbursement payment was made.
(c) Any person who, in violation of subsection (a) of this Code section, uses any travel advance for nongovernmental purposes or submits or approves knowingly, or through willful and wanton neglect, a fraudulent request for reimbursement of expenses valued in the aggregate at $500.00 or more shall be guilty of a felony which shall be punishable by not less than one nor more than 20 years' imprisonment and a fine not to exceed $50,000.00 or triple the amount of such misappropriated travel advances or fraudulent reimbursement payments, whichever is greater. In addition to such criminal penalties, any such person shall also be subject to immediate termination of state employment and shall owe restitution to the state equal to the amount of such misappropriated travel advances or fraudulent reimbursements, plus interest to be assessed at a rate of 12 percent per annum to be calculated from the date each misappropriated travel advance or fraudulent reimbursement payment was made.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 700,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2008.
