# § 45-22-7. Safety data sheets; notice to employees; rights of employees

(a) The manufacturer, importer, or distributor of any hazardous chemical shall prepare a safety data sheet which, to the best knowledge of the manufacturer, importer, or distributor, is current, accurate, and complete, based on information then reasonably available to the manufacturer, importer, or distributor, and provide a copy of the safety data sheet to employers who purchase such hazardous chemicals in a written or electronic format. Such safety data sheet shall be maintained by the employer for a period of not less than three years.
(b) Any person who produces a mixture may, for the purposes of this Code section, prepare and use a mixture safety data sheet, subject to the provisions of subsection (j) of this Code section.
(c) A manufacturer, importer, distributor, or employer may provide the information required by this Code section on an entire mixture, instead of on each hazardous chemical in it, when all of the following conditions exist:
  (1) Toxicity test information exists on the mixture itself or adequate information exists to form a valid judgment of the hazardous properties of the mixture itself and the safety data sheet indicates that the information presented and the conclusions drawn are from some source other than direct test data on the mixture itself, and that a safety data sheet on each constituent hazardous chemical identified on the safety data sheet is available upon request;
  (2) Provision of information on the mixture will be as effective in protecting employee health as information on the ingredients;
  (3) The hazardous chemicals in the mixture are identified on the safety data sheet unless it is unfeasible to describe all the ingredients in the mixture, provided that the reason why the hazardous chemicals in the mixture are not identified shall be stated on the safety data sheet; and
  (4) A single mixture safety data sheet may be provided for more than one formulation of a product mixture if the information provided does not vary for the formulation.
(d) A manufacturer, importer, or distributor who is responsible for preparing and transmitting a safety data sheet under the provisions of this Code section shall revise such safety data sheet on a timely basis, as appropriate to the importance of any new information which would affect the contents of the existing safety data sheet, and in any event within three months of such information becoming available to the manufacturer, importer, or distributor. Each such manufacturer, importer, or distributor shall provide a copy of the safety data sheet to employers who have purchased such hazardous chemicals in a written or electronic format. Such safety data sheet shall be maintained by the employer for a period of not less than three years.
(e) Any person subject to the provisions of this Code section shall be relieved of the obligation to provide a direct purchaser of a hazardous chemical with a safety data sheet if:
  (1) He or she has a record of having provided the direct purchaser with the most recent version of the safety data sheet;
  (2) The chemical is labeled pursuant to:
    (A) The federal Atomic Energy Act; or
    (B) The federal Resource Conservation and Recovery Act; or
  (3) The article is one sold at retail and is incidentally sold to an employer or the employer's employees in the same form, approximate amount, concentration, and manner as it is sold to consumers, and, to the seller's knowledge, employee exposure to the article is not significantly greater than the consumer exposure occurring during the principal consumer use of the article.
(f) If an employer is not supplied with a safety data sheet by a manufacturer, importer, or distributor for a hazardous chemical subject to this Code section, such employer shall, within a reasonable amount of time after discovering that a safety data sheet has not been supplied, use diligent efforts to obtain such safety data sheet from the manufacturer, importer, or distributor. For purposes of this Code section, "diligent efforts" means a prompt inquiry by the employer to the manufacturer, importer, or distributor of the hazardous chemicals; provided, however, that an independent contractor or subcontractor shall be responsible for obtaining the safety data sheet for his or her employees in the workplace of another. If after having used diligent efforts, an employer still fails to obtain a safety data sheet, such employer shall notify the department of the employer's inability to obtain such safety data sheet.
(g) The department shall be authorized to punish any manufacturer, importer, or distributor of a hazardous chemical that violates this Code section by imposition of a monetary penalty not to exceed $1,000.00 for each day that such manufacturer, importer, or distributor of a hazardous chemical subject to this Code section has not provided the employer with the safety data sheet.
(h) An employer who has used diligent efforts and who has made a documented notification to the department pursuant to this Code section shall not be found in violation of this Code section with respect to the safety data sheet which was not supplied by the manufacturer, importer, or distributor as required by this Code section.
(i) Every employer who manufactures, produces, uses, applies, or stores hazardous chemicals in the workplace shall post a notice in a place where notices are normally posted, informing employees of their rights under this chapter.
(j) Every employer who manufactures, produces, uses, applies, or stores hazardous chemicals in the workplace shall maintain a safety data sheet for each hazardous chemical which is present in such workplace. All safety data sheets shall be readily available in the workplace in a written or electronic format; provided, however, that employers who maintain one or more work areas which are not fixed at specific geographic locations shall be authorized to maintain safety data sheets for each hazardous chemical used in such work area at a central location.
(k)
  (1) A safety data sheet may be kept in any form, including operations procedures, and may be designed to cover groups of hazardous chemicals in a work area where it may be appropriate to address the hazards of a process rather than individual hazardous chemicals. The employer shall ensure that in all cases the required information is provided for each hazardous chemical, and is readily accessible during each workshift to employees when they are in their work area; provided, however, that employers who maintain one or more work areas which are not fixed at specific geographic locations shall be authorized to maintain safety data sheets for each hazardous chemical used in such work area at a central location.
  (2) Any employee may request in writing and shall have the right to examine and obtain the safety data sheets for the hazardous chemicals to which he or she is, has been, or may be exposed. The employer shall provide any safety data sheet within its possession within five of the requesting employee's working days, subject to the provisions of subsection (f) of this Code section. The employer may adopt reasonable procedures for acting upon such requests to avoid interruption of normal work operations.
  (3) An independent contractor or subcontractor working in the workplace of another employer may request in writing and shall have the right to examine the safety data sheets for the hazardous chemicals to which such contractor, subcontractor, or employees thereof are, have been, or may be exposed. The employer shall provide any safety data sheet within its possession within five of the requesting independent contractor's or subcontractor's working days, subject to the provisions of subsection (f) of this Code section. The employer may adopt reasonable procedures for acting upon such requests to avoid interruption of normal work operations.
  (4) If an employee who has requested a safety data sheet pursuant to this chapter has not received such safety data sheet within five of the requesting employee's working days, subject to the provisions of subsection (f) of this Code section, that employee may refuse to work with the chemical for which he or she has requested the safety data sheet until such safety data sheet is provided by the employer; provided, however, that nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to permit any employee to refuse to perform essential services, as such term is defined by rule or regulation; provided, further, that nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to interfere with the right of the employer to transfer an employee who so refuses to work to other duties until such safety data sheet is provided and such a transfer shall not be considered a discriminatory act under Code Section 45-22-10. No pay, position, seniority, or other benefits shall be lost for exercise of any right provided by this chapter as a result of such a transfer.
(l) No employer shall discharge or otherwise discriminate against an employee for the employee's assertion of the employee's rights under this chapter.
(m) For purposes of this Code section, an employer, independent contractor, or subcontractor shall maintain safety data sheets for their own workplaces only; provided, however, that employees of such independent contractor or subcontractor, insofar as they are exposed in the course of their employment to hazardous chemicals in other workplaces, shall have the right to examine safety data sheets for those chemicals to which they are exposed from the workplace employer through a written request to their own employer as provided in paragraph (2) of subsection (k) of this Code section. Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed to require an employer to conduct studies to develop new information.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 614,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 45, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 137,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2016.
