# § 45-22-8. Information and training standards

(a) Each employer shall be required to comply with the minimum information standards set forth in this subsection. Each employee shall be informed of:
  (1) The requirements of this Code section;
  (2) What a safety data sheet is and the contents of the safety data sheet for any hazardous chemical to which he or she is exposed, or equivalent information, either in written form or through training programs;
  (3) Any operations in his or her work area where hazardous chemicals are present;
  (4) The location and availability of training programs;
  (5) His or her right to receive information regarding hazardous chemicals to which he or she may be exposed;
  (6) His or her right for his or her physician to receive information regarding hazardous chemicals to which the employee may be exposed; and
  (7) His or her right against discharge or other discrimination due to the employee's exercise of the rights provided by this chapter.
(b) In addition to providing the information required by subsection (a) of this Code section, each employer shall be required to provide a training program for all employees who are exposed to hazardous chemicals in the normal course of their employment. When training employees who are exposed to hazardous chemicals, the employer shall explain any physical or health hazards associated with the use of the chemical or mixture; proper precautions for handling, necessary personal protective equipment, or other safety precautions necessary to prevent or minimize exposure to the hazardous chemical; methods of observation that may be used to detect the presence or release of a hazardous chemical in a work area, including, but not limited to, spot check monitoring, continuous monitoring, or methods of visual or olfactory detection; the labeling system and the safety data sheet and how employees can obtain and use the appropriate hazard information; and emergency procedures for spills, fire, disposal, and first aid. This information may relate to an entire class of hazardous chemicals to the extent appropriate and related to the job. Whenever any employer receives a new or revised safety data sheet, such information shall be provided to employees on a timely basis not to exceed 30 days after receipt, if the new information indicates significantly increased risks to or measures necessary to protect employee health as compared to those stated on a safety data sheet previously provided.
(c) The department shall by rule or regulation establish minimum information and training standards for compliance with this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 614,§ 19, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 137,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2016.
