# § 25-14-4. Written certification

(a) Each manufacturer shall submit to the Commissioner a written certification attesting that:
  (1) Each cigarette listed in the certification has been tested in accordance with Code Section 25-14-3; and
  (2) Each cigarette listed in the certification meets the performance standard set forth in paragraph (3) of subsection (b) of Code Section 25-14-3.
(b) Each cigarette listed in the certification shall be described with the following information:
  (1) Brand or trade name on the package;
  (2) Style, such as light or ultra light;
  (3) Length in millimeters;
  (4) Circumference in millimeters;
  (5) Flavor, such as menthol or chocolate, if applicable;
  (6) Filter or nonfilter;
  (7) Package description, such as soft pack or box;
  (8) Marking approved in accordance with Code Section 25-14-5;
  (9) The name, address, and telephone number of the laboratory, if different from the manufacturer that conducted the test; and
  (10) The date that the testing occurred.
(c) The certifications shall also be made available to the Attorney General for purposes consistent with this chapter and to the state revenue commissioner for the purposes of ensuring compliance with this Code section.
(d) Each cigarette certified under this Code section shall be recertified every three years.
(e) For each cigarette listed in a certification, a manufacturer shall pay to the Commissioner a fee of $250.00.
(f) If a manufacturer has certified a cigarette pursuant to this Code section and thereafter makes any change to such cigarette that is likely to alter its compliance with the reduced cigarette ignition propensity standards required by this chapter, that cigarette shall not be sold or offered for sale in this state until the manufacturer retests the cigarette in accordance with the testing standards set forth in Code Section 25-14-3 and maintains records of that retesting as required by Code Section 25-14-3. Any altered cigarette which does not meet the performance standard set forth in Code Section 25-14-3 shall not be sold in this state.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 25, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 25, eff. 1/1/2010.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 401,§ 1, eff. 4/30/2008.
