# § 25-14-5. Required marking of cigarettes

(a) Cigarettes that are certified by a manufacturer in accordance with Code Section 25-14-4 shall be marked to indicate compliance with the requirements of Code Section 25-14-3. The marking shall be in eight-point type or larger and consist of:
  (1) Modification of the Universal Product Code to include a visible mark printed at or around the area of the Universal Product Code. The mark may consist of alphanumeric or symbolic characters permanently stamped, engraved, embossed, or printed in conjunction with the Universal Product Code;
  (2) Any visible combination of alphanumeric or symbolic characters permanently stamped, engraved, or embossed upon the cigarette packaging or cellophane wrap; or
  (3) Printed, stamped, engraved, or embossed text on the cigarette packaging or cellophane wrap that indicates that the cigarettes meet Georgia standards.
(b) A manufacturer shall use only one marking and shall apply this marking uniformly for all packages, including but not limited to packs, cartons, and cases, and brands marketed by that manufacturer.
(c) The Commissioner shall be notified as to the marking that is selected.
(d) Prior to the certification of any cigarette, a manufacturer shall present its proposed marking to the Commissioner for approval. Upon receipt of the request, the Commissioner shall approve or disapprove the marking offered. The Commissioner shall approve:
  (1) Any marking in use and approved for sale in New York pursuant to the New York Fire Safety Standards for Cigarettes; or
  (2) The letters "FSC," which signifies Fire Standards Compliant, appearing in eight-point type or larger and permanently printed, stamped, engraved, or embossed on the package at or near the Universal Product Code. Proposed markings shall be deemed approved if the Commissioner fails to act within ten business days of receiving a request for approval.
(e) No manufacturer shall modify its approved marking unless the modification has been approved by the Commissioner in accordance with this Code section.
(f) Manufacturers certifying cigarettes in accordance with Code Section 25-14-4 shall provide a copy of the certifications to all wholesale dealers and agents to which they sell cigarettes and shall also provide sufficient copies of an illustration of the package marking utilized by the manufacturer pursuant to this Code section for each retail dealer to which the wholesale dealers or agents sell cigarettes. Wholesale dealers and agents shall provide a copy of these package markings received from manufacturers to all retail dealers to which they sell cigarettes. Wholesale dealers, agents, and retail dealers shall permit the Commissioner, the state revenue commissioner, the Attorney General, and their employees to inspect markings of cigarette packaging marked in accordance with this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 25, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 25, eff. 1/1/2010.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 401,§ 1, eff. 4/30/2008.
