# § 25-14-6. Civil penalty; forfeiture

(a) A manufacturer, wholesale dealer, agent, or any other person or entity who knowingly sells or offers to sell cigarettes, other than through retail sale, in violation of Code Section 25-14-3, for a first offense shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $100.00 dollars for each pack of such cigarettes sold or offered for sale, provided that in no case shall the penalty against any such person or entity exceed $100,000.00 during any 30 day period.
(b) A retail dealer who knowingly sells or offers to sell cigarettes in violation of Code Section 25-14-3 shall be subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $100.00 for each pack of such cigarettes, provided that in no case shall the penalty against any retail dealer exceed $25,000.00 during any 30 day period.
(c) In addition to any penalty prescribed by law, any corporation, partnership, sole proprietor, limited partnership, or association engaged in the manufacture of cigarettes that knowingly makes a false certification pursuant to Code Section 25-14-4 shall be subject to a civil penalty of at least $75,000.00 and not to exceed $250,000.00 for each such false certification.
(d) Any person violating any other provision in this chapter shall be subject to a civil penalty for a first offense not to exceed $1,000.00, and for a subsequent offense subject to a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000.00, for each such violation.
(e) Any cigarettes that have been sold or offered for sale that do not comply with the performance standard required by Code Section 25-14-3 shall be subject to forfeiture and, upon forfeiture, shall be destroyed; provided, however, that prior to the destruction of any cigarette pursuant to this Code section, the true holder of the trademark rights in the cigarette brand shall be permitted to inspect the cigarette.
(f) In addition to any other remedy provided by law, the Commissioner or Attorney General may file an action in superior court for a violation of this chapter, including petitioning for injunctive relief or to recover any costs or damages suffered by the state because of a violation of this chapter, including enforcement costs relating to the specific violation and attorney's fees. Each violation of this chapter or of rules or regulations adopted under this chapter constitutes a separate civil violation for which the Commissioner or Attorney General may obtain relief.
(g) Whenever any law enforcement personnel or duly authorized representative of the Commissioner or Attorney General shall discover any cigarettes that have not been marked in the manner required under Code Section 25-14-5, such personnel are hereby authorized and empowered to seize and take possession of such cigarettes. Such cigarettes shall be turned over to the state revenue commissioner and shall be forfeited to the state. Cigarettes seized pursuant to this subsection shall be destroyed; provided, however, that prior to the destruction of any cigarette seized pursuant to this subsection, the true holder of the trademark rights in the cigarette brand shall be permitted to inspect the cigarette.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 25, eff. 1/1/2010.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 401,§ 1, eff. 4/30/2008.
