# § 33-21-27. Enforcement of chapter; penalties for violations of chapter

(a)
  (1) In lieu of suspension or revocation of a certificate of authority for any of the causes enumerated in Code Section 33-21-5, the Commissioner of Insurance may place a health maintenance organization on probation or may fine the health maintenance organization in accordance with Chapter 2 of this title when, in his judgment, he finds that the public interest would not be harmed by the continued operation of the health maintenance organization. The amount of any penalty shall be paid by the health maintenance organization to the Commissioner for use by the state. At any hearing conducted in accordance with this title, the Commissioner shall have authority to administer oaths to witnesses. Anyone testifying falsely, after having been administered the oath, shall be subject to the penalty of perjury.
  (2) Any action of the Commissioner of Insurance taken pursuant to this Code section shall be subject to such review as may be provided in Chapter 2 of this title.
(b)
  (1) If the Commissioner of Insurance or the commissioner of community health shall, for any reason, have cause to believe that any violation of this chapter has occurred or is threatened, the Commissioner of Insurance or the commissioner of community health may give notice to the health maintenance organization and to the representatives or other persons who appear to be involved in the suspected violation to arrange a conference with the alleged violators or their authorized representatives for the purpose of attempting to ascertain the facts relating to the suspected violation and, in the event it appears that any violation has occurred or is threatened, to arrive at an adequate and effective means of correcting or preventing such violation.
  (2) Proceedings under this subsection shall not be governed by any formal procedural requirements and may be conducted in such manner as the Commissioner of Insurance or the commissioner of community health may deem appropriate under the circumstances.
(c)
  (1) The Commissioner of Insurance may issue an order directing a health maintenance organization or a representative of a health maintenance organization to cease and desist from engaging in any act or practice in violation of this chapter.
  (2) Within five days after service of the order of cease and desist, the respondent may request a hearing on the question of whether acts or practices in violation of this chapter have occurred. The hearings shall be conducted pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and judicial review shall be available as provided in Chapter 13 of Title 50.
(d) In the case of any violation of this chapter, if the Commissioner of Insurance elects not to issue a cease and desist order or in the event of noncompliance with a cease and desist order issued pursuant to this Code section, the Commissioner may institute a proceeding to obtain injunctive relief, or seeking other appropriate relief, in the superior court having jurisdiction of the parties.
(e) In addition to any other liability or punishment prescribed, any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
