# § 33-21-20. Conduct of hearings generally; participation in hearings by commissioner of community health; judicial review

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, all hearings and proceedings held under this chapter shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of this title and the Commissioner of Insurance shall have all the powers granted to him in Chapter 2 of this title.
(b) The commissioner of community health, or his or her designated representative, shall be in attendance at the hearings and shall participate in the proceedings. The recommendation and findings of the commissioner of community health with respect to matters regarding health maintenance organizations under his or her jurisdiction relating to the quality of health care services provided in connection with any decision regarding denial, suspension, or revocation of a certificate of authority shall be conclusive and binding upon the Commissioner of Insurance. Health maintenance organizations meeting the requirements of subsection (b.1) of Code Section 33-21-3 shall not be subject to the jurisdiction of the commissioner of community health. After the hearing, or upon the failure of the health maintenance organization to appear at the hearing, the Commissioner of Insurance shall take action as is deemed advisable on written findings which shall be mailed to the health maintenance organization with a copy of the findings mailed to the commissioner of community health. The action of the Commissioner of Insurance and the recommendation and findings of the commissioner of community health shall be subject to review by the superior court having jurisdiction. The court may, in disposing of the issue before it, modify, affirm, or reverse the order of the Commissioner of Insurance in whole or in part.
(c) Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," shall apply to proceedings under this Code section to the extent that they are not in conflict with subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 529, § 6, eff. 5/19/2004.
