# § 45-25-2. Definitions

(1) "Covered condition" means an eligible first responder's occupational post-traumatic stress disorder that is the direct result of an experience of or an exposure to a traumatic event, wherein such experience or exposure takes place during the normal course of the first responder's regular occupational or volunteer duties on behalf of a public entity and the diagnosis is made no later than two years after the date of the traumatic event.
(2) "Eligible first responder" means a first responder who experienced or was exposed to a traumatic event during the normal course of performing regular occupational or volunteer duties on behalf of a public entity and such experience or exposure resulted in post-traumatic stress disorder, if the first responder received a diagnosis of post-traumatic stress disorder arising from such experience or exposure no later than two years after the traumatic event.
(3) "First responder" means any of the following:
  (A) "Communications officer" as defined in Code Section 37-12-1;
  (B) "Correctional officer" as defined in Code Section 45-1-8;
  (C) "Emergency medical professional" as defined in Code Section 16-10-24.2;
  (D) "Emergency medical technician" as defined in Code Section 16-10-24.2;
  (E) "Firefighter" as defined in Code Section 25-4-2;
  (F) "Highway emergency response operator" as defined in Code Section 45-1-8;
  (G) "Jail officer" as defined in Code Section 45-1-8;
  (H) "Juvenile correctional officer" as defined in Code Section 45-1-8;
  (I) "Peace officer" as defined in Code Section 35-8-2;
  (J) "Probation officer" as defined in Code Section 45-1-8; and
  (K) Law enforcement officer with the Department of Natural Resources.
(4) "Monthly salary" means regular monthly earnings excluding overtime, bonuses, and commissions.
(5) "Post-traumatic stress disorder" means an anxiety disorder caused by experiencing or being exposed to a traumatic event and which satisfies the clinical diagnostic criteria set forth in the American Psychiatric Association's Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, in effect on January 1, 2024.
(6) "Public entity" means a department, agency, board, bureau, commission, authority, or instrumentality of the State of Georgia, any local government or authority, including a county, municipal, or consolidated government in this state, or any other political division in this state. Such term includes a school district, independent school district, or other local school system in this state.
(7) "Qualified diagnostician" means a physician, psychiatrist, or psychologist who is duly authorized to practice in this state and is certified in a medical specialty appropriate for trauma related mental health diagnoses.
(8) "Traumatic event" means an actual or threatened death, serious injury, or act of sexual violence that occurs on or after July 1, 2024, and which the first responder experienced or was exposed to during the normal course of the first responder's regular occupational or volunteer duties on behalf of a public entity. In cases involving multiple traumatic events occurring on or after July 1, 2024, the traumatic event is the most recent event determined by the qualified diagnostician to be related to the symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 511,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2025.
