# § 1-1-8. References to state law or this Code

(a) Unless otherwise indicated in the context, references in this Code to titles, chapters, articles, parts, subparts, or Code sections shall mean titles, chapters, articles, parts, subparts, or Code sections of this Code.
(b) Unless there is an expressed intention to the contrary, any reference in this Code or in any law of this state to another provision of this Code or law of this state shall mean and be construed to refer to such other provision or law as it now or hereafter exists.
(c) Any reference in any local or special law of this state to any Act or resolution of the General Assembly or to any title, chapter, section, or other portion of any prior code of this state shall be construed to be a reference to the appropriate title, chapter, article, part, subpart, Code section, subsection, paragraph, subparagraph, division, or subdivision of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(d) Unless otherwise indicated by the context in which it is used, any citation in any public or private document, writing, or other instrument to a law of the State of Georgia which has been codified in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated shall be construed to be a reference to such law as contained in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated.
(e) Any reference in any Act of the General Assembly or in any other public or private document, writing, or other instrument to "O.C.G.A." shall mean and refer to the Official Code of Georgia Annotated published under authority of the State of Georgia. The Official Code of Georgia Annotated published under authority of the State of Georgia may be cited or referred to as "O.C.G.A."
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to mean that any matter contained in the Official Code of Georgia Annotated has any force of law or imprimatur of the State of Georgia except as provided for in Code Section 1-1-1.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 306,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
