# § 43-15-4. Adoption of rules and regulations; meetings; seal; executive director as secretary of board; advisors

(a) The board shall adopt all necessary rules, regulations, and bylaws, not inconsistent with this chapter and the Constitution and laws of this state or of the United States, to govern its times and place of meetings for organization and reorganization, for the holding of examinations, for fixing the length of terms of its officers, and for governing all other matters requisite to the exercise of its powers, the performance of its duties, and the transaction of its businesses. The board shall adopt an official seal.
(b) The board shall meet at such times as the business of the board shall require, as the board or its chairperson may determine, but shall hold one annual meeting each year at which time the board shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson. The chairperson may delegate the responsibility of setting the location, date, and time of board meetings and providing notice of meetings to the executive director. Board meetings may be conducted by audio or video conference calls, and participation in such a conference call shall constitute attendance at the meeting so conducted. Any action that might have been taken at a meeting of the board may be taken by the unanimous written consent of all members of the board.
(c) A majority of the appointed members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by the board.
(d) The executive director shall serve as the secretary of the board ex officio but shall not be a voting member of the board or member for purposes of constituting a quorum.
(e) The board may appoint such committees or persons, who need not be members of the board, to advise or assist it in administration, investigation, and enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, as the board deems necessary, and shall be authorized to compensate any such members of committees or persons who are not members of the board in such amounts as it shall determine to be reasonable.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 835,§ 4, eff. 5/9/2022.
