# § 43-15-22. Registrant or licensee required to obtain seal; inscription; purpose; fraudulent use of seal

(a) Every professional engineer and professional land surveyor registered or licensed, as applicable, under this chapter shall, upon receipt of a certificate of registration or license, obtain a seal of the design authorized by the board, bearing the registrant's or licensee's name, certificate or license number, and the legend "Professional Engineer," "Registered Professional Structural Engineer," or "Professional Land Surveyor," in accordance with the certificate of registration or license.
(b) Plans, specifications, plats, and reports issued by a registrant or licensee shall be stamped or sealed and countersigned by the registrant or licensee; but it shall be unlawful for the registrant or licensee or any other person to stamp or seal any document with such seal after the certificate of the registrant or license of the licensee named thereon has expired, or has been revoked, or during the period of any suspension imposed by the board. No plans, specifications, plats, or reports shall be stamped with the seal of a registrant or a licensee unless such registrant or licensee has personally performed the engineering or land surveying work involved or, when the registrant or licensee has not personally performed the engineering or land surveying work reflected in any plan, specification, plat, or report, such registrant or licensee has affixed his or her seal thereto only if such document has been prepared by an employee or employees under the registrant's or licensee's direct supervisory control on a daily basis and after the registrant or licensee has thoroughly reviewed the work embodied in such document and has satisfied himself or herself completely that such work is adequate.
(c) No registrant or licensee shall affix his or her seal to any plan, specification, plat, or report unless he or she has assumed the responsibility for the accuracy and adequacy of the work involved.
(d) Any registrant or licensee who has affixed his or her seal to any plan, specification, plat, or report prepared by another individual not under the registrant's or licensee's direct supervisory control on a daily basis, and without having thoroughly reviewed such work, shall be deemed to have committed a fraudulent act of misconduct in the practice of professional engineering or land surveying.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 561,§ 8, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 417,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
