# § 43-15-30. Unlawful acts

(a) Any person that violates Code Section 43-15-7 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(b) Any individual presenting or attempting to use as his or her own the certificate of registration or license or the seal of another obtained under this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c) Any person that gives any false or forged evidence of any kind to the board or to any member thereof in obtaining a certificate, certificate of registration, or license shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d) Any person that falsely impersonates any other registrant or licensee or any person that attempts to use an expired or revoked certificate of registration or license shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(e) Any person offering services to the public that uses by name, verbal claim, sign, advertisement, directory listing, letterhead, or otherwise the words "Engineer," "Engineers," "Professional Engineering," "Engineering," "Engineered," "Professional Structural Engineer," "Professional Structural Engineers," "Structural Engineer," "Structural Engineers," "Structural Engineering," or "Structurally Engineered" shall be guilty of a misdemeanor unless said person has complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(f) Any person offering services to the public that uses by name, verbal claim, sign, advertisement, directory listing, letterhead, or otherwise the words "Professional Land Surveyor," "Professional Land Surveyors," "Land Surveyor," or "Land Surveyors" shall be guilty of a misdemeanor unless such person has complied with the provisions of this chapter.
(g) Each day or occurrence in violation of any provision of this Code section shall be considered a separate offense.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 561,§ 11, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 417,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
