# § 43-15-5. Role of executive director

(1) Be a full-time employee of the board and shall serve at the pleasure of the board;
(2) Keep all records related to the board and its proceedings;
(3) With the approval of the board, employ and fix the compensation of personnel as deemed necessary to assist the executive director in his or her duties or the duties of the board. Persons hired for the purpose of conducting investigations on behalf of the board shall have a level of experience or knowledge of the area of practice needing to be investigated, including, but not limited to, engineering or surveying, that is acceptable to the board;
(4) With the consent of the board, schedule the time and location for all examinations, meetings, and hearings and maintain a schedule of all examinations, meetings, and hearings that shall be available for public review;
(5) With the approval of the board, enter into such contracts, leases, agreements, or other transactions with any person or agency as are deemed necessary to carry out the provisions of this chapter or to provide the services required by the board;
(6) Prepare and deliver a written annual report to the Governor and the chairpersons of the House and Senate Appropriations Committees on or before the second Tuesday in January of each year covering the activities of the board for the previous calendar year, which shall also be made available to any member of the General Assembly upon request. The report shall include a summary of all actions taken by the board, a financial report of all income and disbursements, staff personnel, and number of persons licensed by the board. The Governor may request a preliminary financial report for budgetary purposes prior to such an annual report; and
(7) Prepare and maintain a roster containing the names of all current licensees for each type of license issued by the board. A copy of this roster shall be available to any person upon request at a fee prescribed by the executive director sufficient to cover the cost of printing and distribution. The following shall be treated as confidential and need not be disclosed without the approval of the board:
  (A) Applications and other personal information submitted by applicants, except to the applicant, staff, and the board;
  (B) Information, favorable or unfavorable, submitted by a reference source concerning an applicant, except to the staff and the board;
  (C) Examination questions and other examination materials, except to the staff and the board; and
  (D) The deliberations of the board with respect to an application, an examination, a complaint, an investigation, or a disciplinary proceeding, except as may be contained in official board minutes.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 835,§ 5, eff. 5/9/2022.
