# § 43-15-21. Temporary permit

(a) The board, or its delegate, in its sole discretion, may issue a temporary permit to an individual who is not a resident of and who has no established place of business in this state, or who has recently become a resident thereof, to permit him or her, in accordance with the conditions of the temporary permit, to practice or offer to practice engineering in this state if:
  (1) An application for a certificate of registration has been filed with the board and the fee required by this chapter has been paid;
  (2) The applicant is legally qualified to practice such profession in the state or country of the applicant's residence or former residence; and
  (3) The requirements and qualifications for obtaining a certificate of registration in that jurisdiction are not lower than those specified in this chapter.
(b) An application under subsection (a) of this Code section shall be made to the board in writing, containing such information and in the form and manner as shall be prescribed by the board.
(c) The temporary permit shall continue only for such time as the board requires for the consideration of the application for registration. The temporary permit shall contain such conditions with respect to the scope of the permission granted as the board deems necessary or desirable.
(d) Plans, specifications, plats, and reports issued by an individual holding a temporary permit shall bear his or her signature and a stamp containing his or her name, business address, and "Georgia Professional Engineer Temporary Permit No. __________________." The signature and stamp shall be affixed only in accordance with the requirements of subsection (b) of Code Section 43-15-22.
(e) An individual who has obtained a temporary permit and practices in accordance therewith is deemed to be a professional engineer for purposes of this chapter, but a temporary permit shall not be deemed to be a registration under any provision of this chapter, including, by way of illustration and not limitation, Code Section 43-15-23.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 417,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
