# § 43-15-13. Licensure as a professional land surveyor; land surveyor intern certification

(a) To be eligible for licensure as a professional land surveyor, an applicant shall:
  (1) Complete the education and training requirements of subparagraph (A), (B), or (C) of this paragraph as follows:
    (A)
      (i) Earn a bachelor's degree in a curriculum approved by the board. Such applicant shall complete a minimum of 18 semester hours in land surveying subjects acceptable to the board as a part of or separate from such degree; and
      (ii) Acquire not less than three years of combined office and field experience in land surveying of a nature satisfactory to the board;
    (B)
      (i) Earn an associate's degree in a curriculum approved by the board. Such applicant shall complete a minimum of 18 semester hours in land surveying subjects acceptable to the board as a part of or separate from such degree; and
      (ii) Acquire not less than five years of combined office and field experience in land surveying of a nature satisfactory to the board; or
    (C)
      (i) Earn a high school diploma or its equivalent. Such applicant shall complete a minimum of 18 semester hours in land surveying subjects acceptable to the board; and
      (ii) Acquire not less than eight years of combined office and field experience in land surveying of a nature satisfactory to the board; and
  (2)
    (A) Pass each of the following board approved examinations:
      (i) The fundamentals of surveying examination;
      (ii) The principles and practices of land surveying examination; and
      (iii) The laws and history of land surveying in Georgia examination.
    (B) The examinations listed in divisions (i) through (iii) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph may be taken after completion of the education requirements of paragraph (1) of this subsection; provided, however, that the examination in division (i) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall be taken and passed before the examination in division (ii) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph is taken, and the examination listed in division (ii) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph shall be taken and passed before the examination in division (iii) of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph is taken.
(b) The board may issue a land surveyor intern certificate to an applicant who has:
  (1) Completed the education requirements set forth in division (a)(1)(A)(i), (a)(1)(B)(i), or (a)(1)(C)(i) of this Code section;
  (2) Passed the board approved fundamentals of surveying examination as required under division (a)(2)(A)(i) of this Code section; and
  (3) Completed such additional requirements as may be required by the board through rules and regulations.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 555,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 417,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 43, eff. 4/18/2002.
