# § 43-15-16. Registration and licensure by comity

(a) The board may, in its discretion, upon application therefor and the payment of a fee prescribed by the board, issue a certificate of registration as a professional engineer or professional structural engineer to any individual who holds a certificate of qualification or registration issued to him or her by proper authority of the National Council of Examiners for Engineering and Surveying or of any state or territory or possession of the United States if the requirements of the registration of professional engineers or professional structural engineers under which the certificate of qualification or registration was issued do not conflict with this chapter and are of a standard not lower than that specified in this chapter or if the applicant held such certificate on or before July 1, 1956. The fact that the statute under which the individual was issued a certificate of qualification or registration in another state does not provide that the required written examination be passed subsequent to the acquisition of the required experience shall not be deemed as a conflict with, or lower than, the Georgia requirements, provided that the written examination and the amount of experience required for registration are substantially equivalent to the Georgia requirements.
(b) The board may, in its discretion, upon application therefor and the payment of a fee prescribed by the board, issue a license as a professional land surveyor to any individual who holds a license to practice land surveying issued by a state or territory or possession of the United States obtained:
  (1) By written examination of not less than eight hours in duration prior to July 1, 1968;
  (2) By written examination of not less than 16 hours in duration prior to July 1, 1978; or
  (3) Under qualifications comparable to those prescribed by this chapter; and in addition passes a written examination on the laws of Georgia relating to land surveying (professional land surveyor examination).

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 561,§ 6, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 417,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
