# § 43-15-15. Applications for certificates, certificates of registration, and licenses

(a) Applications for certificates, certificates of registration, and licenses shall be made under oath to the board and shall contain such information in the form and manner as shall be prescribed by the board. The application shall be accompanied by a fee in an amount prescribed by the board.
(b) No individual shall be eligible for a certificate, a certificate of registration, or a license under this chapter who is not of good character and reputation.
(c) If the board denies an application on the ground that the applicant lacks the requisite experience to admit him or her to the examination, the board may impose on the applicant a period of deferment on the filing of a new application, during which period the board shall not be required to accept for filing a new application by the applicant. The period of deferment shall not exceed the time reasonably required to acquire the requisite experience.
(d) An application shall contain the names of not less than five individuals, not related to the applicant by blood or marriage, of whom at least three shall be professional engineers or professional land surveyors having personal knowledge of the experience on which the applicant predicates his or her qualifications.
(e) Experience required under this chapter shall be of a character and nature approved by the board and consistent with the purposes of this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 417,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
