# § 43-15-23.1. Land surveying firms, corporations, or other entities; application; fee; certificate of authorization

(a) The practice of or offer to practice land surveying, as defined in this chapter, by individual professional land surveyors licensed under this chapter through a firm, corporation, professional corporation, partnership, association, or other entity offering land surveying services to the public or by a firm, corporation, professional corporation, partnership, association, or other entity offering land surveying services to the public through individual professional land surveyors as agents, employees, officers, members, or partners is permitted subject to the provisions of this chapter; provided, however, that one or more of the principals, officers, members, or partners of said firm, corporation, professional corporation, partnership, association, or other entity and all personnel of such firm, corporation, professional corporation, partnership, association, or entity who act in its behalf as professional land surveyors in this state shall be licensed as provided in this chapter; and further provided that said firm, corporation, professional corporation, partnership, association, or entity has been issued a certificate of authorization by the board as provided in this chapter.
(b) A firm, corporation, professional corporation, partnership, association, or other entity desiring a certificate of authorization shall file with the board an application upon a form to be prescribed by the board and accompanied by the registration fee prescribed by the board.
(c)
  (1) A corporation or professional corporation shall file with the board, using a form provided by the board, the names and addresses of all officers and board members of the corporation, including the principal officer or officers duly licensed to practice land surveying in this state and of an individual or individuals duly licensed to practice land surveying within this state who shall be in responsible charge of the practice of land surveying in this state by said corporation.
  (2) A partnership shall file with the board, using a form provided by the board, the names and addresses of all partners of the partnership, including the partner or partners duly licensed to practice land surveying in this state and of an individual or individuals duly licensed to practice land surveying in this state who shall be in responsible charge of the practice of land surveying in this state by said partnership.
  (3) Any firm, limited liability company, association, or entity which is not a corporation, professional corporation, or partnership shall file with the board, using a form provided by the board, the names and addresses of all principals or members of the firm, association, or entity duly licensed to practice land surveying in this state who shall be in responsible charge of the practice of land surveying in this state by said firm, association, or other entity.
  (4) The forms provided in paragraphs (1) through (3) of this subsection must accompany a biennial renewal fee prescribed by the board. In the event there shall be a change in any of these persons, such change shall be designated on the same form and filed with the board by the firm, corporation, professional corporation, partnership, association, or entity within 30 days after the effective date of the change.
(d)
  (1) After all of the requirements of this Code section have been complied with, the board shall issue to such firm, corporation, professional corporation, partnership, association, or other entity a certificate of authorization.
  (2) The board may refuse to issue a certificate if any facts exist which would entitle the board to suspend or revoke an existing certificate of authorization or if the board shall determine that any of the officers, directors, principals, members, agents, or employees of the entity to be licensed are not individuals of good character.
  (3) Every firm, partnership, corporation, or other entity which performs or offers to perform land surveying services shall have a resident professional land surveyor in responsible charge in each separate branch office in which land surveying services are performed or offered to be performed. As used in this Code section, the term "resident" means a registrant who spends the majority of his or her normal working time at his or her place of business. The registrant can be the resident licensee at only one place of business at one time.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 417,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
