# § 40-2-34. Reports and remittances by tag agents

(a) All county tag agents accepting license applications shall endeavor to submit to the commissioner on at least a weekly basis reports of license applications handled and remit with such reports related sums of money to which the state is entitled. All tag reports of license applications handled and related sums of money to which the state is entitled must be submitted to the commissioner within seven calendar days from the close of the business week during which the aforementioned license applications were handled and related sums of money received. The term "business week" shall mean Monday through Friday (or Saturday if applicable).
(b) Funds received as a result of the handling of license applications shall be considered trust funds in the hands of such tag agents until such time as paid over to the commissioner.
(c) Failure to submit the reports or remit the funds within the period required by this Code section shall result in the penalties imposed by Code Section 48-2-44.
(d) Before the expiration of the time period within which a tag report is required to be filed with the commissioner or related funds remitted to the commissioner, application may be made to the commissioner for an extension. The commissioner shall be authorized, upon a showing of justifiable cause, to grant up to a 30 day extension from the deadline provided for the performance of the above duties. Only one such extension may be granted with regard to any reports or funds due the commissioner for a specific business week.
(e) Proof of mailing within the appropriate time periods provided for in this Code section, as evidenced by a United States Postal Service postmark, shall be prima-facie proof that the county tag agent has complied in a timely manner with the duties enumerated by this Code section.
(f) All funds derived from motor vehicle registrations or the sale of any license plates and remitted to the state shall be deposited in the general fund of the state treasury unless otherwise specifically authorized by the Constitution and provided for in this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 947,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2007.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 364, § 3-1, eff. 1/1/2002, or on such date thereafter as this section, as amended by an Act approved April 28, 2000 (Ga. L. 2000, p. 951), becomes fully effective pursuant to Section 13-1 of that 2000 Act, whichever is later.
