# § 40-2-64.1. License plates for official representatives of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representatives Office

(a) In accordance with the Taiwan Relations Act as provided for in Code Section 50-1-2, the commissioner shall design a distinctive Foreign Organization license plate.
(b) Upon application and compliance with the state motor vehicle laws relating to the registration and licensing of motor vehicles and the payment of any registration fees, including the $25.00 manufacturing fee and the $35.00 special license plate fee or the $35.00 special license plate renewal fee, as applicable, official representatives of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representatives Office in the United States who maintain a presence in Georgia shall be issued Foreign Organization license plates as prescribed in Code Section 40-2-31 in duplicate. Such license plates shall be fastened to both the front and the rear of the vehicle.
(c) Official representatives of the Taipei Economic and Cultural Representatives Office in Atlanta accredited by the Georgia Department of Economic Development shall be entitled to Foreign Organization license plates for the representative's privately owned motor vehicle. Such license plates shall not be used by any representative after his or her presence in Georgia has terminated.
(d) License plates issued under this Code section shall not be transferred so as to be used by any person other than the person to whom such plates were originally issued but shall be transferred to another vehicle as provided in Code Section 40-2-80.
(e) The commissioner is authorized to establish procedures and promulgate rules and regulations for implementing this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-73, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 14-4, eff. 7/1/2005.
