# § 40-2-86.1. License plates promoting or supporting certain agencies, funds, or nonprofit corporations or issued to qualified motor vehicles or owners with proceeds deposited in the general fund

(a) The General Assembly has determined that the issuance of special license plates to support an agency or fund or a program beneficial to the people of this state that is administered by a nonprofit corporation organized under Section 501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the Internal Revenue Code and, subject to the appropriation process of the General Assembly, appropriating a portion of the funds raised from the sale of these special license plates is in the best interests of the people of this state. Therefore, the license plates listed in subsection (l) of this Code section shall be issued by the department if all of the requirements of subsections (b) through (k) of this Code section have been satisfied.
(b) The commissioner, in cooperation with the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation sponsoring the special license plate, shall design special distinctive license plates intended to promote the program benefited by the sale of the special license plate. The special license plates shall include a design to be of the same size as general issue motor vehicle license plates and a design to be of the same size as motorcycle license plates. Such special license plates shall also include a unique design and identifying number, whereby the total number of characters does not exceed an amount to be determined by the commissioner. If so specified in the design description contained in this Code section for any special license plate, such license plate need not contain a place for the county name decal as required by Code Section 40-2-9. No two recipients shall receive identically numbered plates. The agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation sponsoring the license plate may request the assignment of the first of 100 in a series of license plates upon payment of an additional initial registration fee of $25.00 for each license plate requested.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section, no special license plate shall be produced until such time as the State of Georgia has, through a licensing agreement or otherwise, received such licenses or other permissions as may be required to produce the special license plate. The design of the initial edition of any special license plate, as well as the design of subsequent editions and excepting only any part or parts of the designs owned by others and licensed to the state, shall be owned solely by the State of Georgia for its exclusive use and control, except as authorized by the commissioner. The commissioner may take such steps as may be necessary to give notice of and protect such right, including the copyright or copyrights. However, such steps shall be cumulative of the ownership and exclusive use and control established by this subsection as a matter of law, and no person shall reproduce or otherwise use such design or designs, except as authorized by the commissioner.
(d) Any Georgia resident who is the owner of a motor vehicle, except a vehicle registered under the International Registration Plan, upon complying with the motor vehicle laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles and upon the payment of a manufacturing fee of $25.00 and a special license plate fee of $35.00, in addition to the regular motor vehicle registration fee, shall be able to apply for a special license plate listed in subsection (l) of this Code section. Revalidation decals shall be issued for special license plates in the same manner as provided for general issue license plates, with the addition of a $35.00 special license plate renewal fee, provided that special license plates issued pursuant to paragraph (9) of subsection (l) of this Code section shall be exempt from such special license plate renewal fee.
(e) The manufacturing fee, special license plate fee, and special license plate renewal fee derived from the sale of special license plates contained in subsection (l) of this Code section shall be deposited into the general fund. The sponsoring agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation, subject to the appropriation process of the General Assembly, may request that the funds derived from the sale of special license plates be appropriated to the department for disbursement to such agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation.
(f) Before the department disburses to the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation funds from the sale of special license plates, the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation must provide a written statement stating the manner in which such funds shall be utilized. In addition, a nonprofit corporation must provide the department with documentation of its nonprofit status under Section 501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the Internal Revenue Code. The purposes for which the funds shall be utilized must be the same as those specified in subsection (l) of this Code section authorizing the potential appropriation to the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation of revenue from the sale of special license plates. The agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation shall periodically provide to the commissioner an audit of the use of the funds or other evidence of use of the funds satisfactory to the commissioner. If it is determined that the funds are not being used for the purposes set forth in the statement provided by the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation, the department shall withhold payment of such funds until such noncompliance issues are resolved.
(g) An applicant may request a special license plate any time during the applicant's registration period. If such a license plate is to replace a current valid license plate, the special license plate shall be issued with appropriate decals attached, upon the payment of any applicable registration fees, the manufacturing fee, and the special license plate fee.
(h) No special license plate authorized pursuant to subsection (l) of this Code section shall be issued except upon the receipt by the department of at least 1,000 prepaid applications along with the manufacturing fee. The special license plate shall have an application period of two years from the date of authorization for payment of the manufacturing fee. After such time if the minimum number of applications is not met, the department shall not continue to accept the manufacturing fee, and all fees shall be refunded to applicants; provided, however, that, once the department has received 1,000 prepaid applications along with the manufacturing fee, the sponsor shall not be entitled to a refund.
(i) The department shall not be required to continue to manufacture the special license plate if the number of active registrations falls below 500 registrations at any time during the period provided for in subsection (b) of Code Section 40-2-31. A current registrant may continue to renew such special license plate during his or her annual registration period upon payment of an additional $35.00 special license plate renewal fee, which fee shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34. The department may continue to issue such special license plates that it has in its inventory to assist in achieving the minimum number of registrations. If the special license plate falls below 500 active registrations at any time during the period provided for in subsection (b) of Code Section 40-2-31, the sponsoring agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation shall be required again to obtain 1,000 prepaid applications accompanied by the manufacturing fee to continue to manufacture the special license plate.
(j) Special license plates shall be transferred from one vehicle to another vehicle in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 40-2-80.
(k) Special license plates shall be issued within 30 days of application once the requirements of this Code section have been met.
(l)
  (1) The General Assembly has determined that license plates promoting the agencies, funds, or nonprofit corporations listed in this subsection shall be issued for the purposes indicated and the revenue shall be deposited in the general fund, subject to the appropriation process of the General Assembly.
  (2) A special license plate identifying persons with diabetes. The main purpose of the special license plate is that law enforcement officers and emergency personnel will be alerted to the potential for special needs before they approach the driver of a vehicle, especially if the vehicle has been involved in an accident. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be deposited in the general fund.
  (3) A special license plate honoring all veterans who have served in the armed services of the United States. All of these men and women have sacrificed a portion of their lives in order to serve their country and protect our freedom. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be deposited in the general fund.
  (4) A special license plate honoring the Georgia Association of Realtors. The Association is being honored for its long-standing support of housing opportunities for all citizens of this state, private property rights, and all organizations that assist people in achieving the American dream of home ownership. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be deposited in the general fund.
  (5) A special license plate honoring Georgia municipal clerks. The municipal clerk's office provides the professional link connecting citizens with their local governing bodies and agencies of government at other levels. The funds raised by the sale of this license plate shall be deposited in the general fund.
  (6) A special license plate identifying residents of the State of Georgia who hold an unrevoked and unexpired official amateur radio station license issued by the Federal Communications Commission. The special license plate shall be inscribed with the official amateur radio call letters of such applicant as assigned by the Federal Communications Commission. The funds raised by the sale of this license plate shall be deposited in the general fund.
  (7)
    (A) A special license plate to be issued for alternative fueled vehicles, which license plate shall be similar in design to the license plate issued to all other residents of this state except that the commissioner shall place a distinctive logo or emblem on the license plate which shall distinguish the vehicle as an alternative fueled vehicle eligible to travel in travel lanes designated for such vehicles under paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of Code Section 32-9-4. The words "alternative fueled vehicle" shall be imprinted on such special license plate in lieu of the county name decal. The funds raised by the sale of this license plate shall be deposited in the general fund.
    (B) As used in this paragraph, the term:
      (i) "Alternative fuel" means electricity, natural gas, and propane.
      (ii) "Alternative fueled vehicle" means any vehicle fueled solely by alternative fuel as defined in division (i) of this subparagraph, bi-fuel, or dual fuel.
    (C) Pursuant to paragraph (19) of subsection (a) of Code Section 40-2-151, the applicant for a special license plate for any alternative fueled vehicle shall provide proof that he or she has paid the registration fee prescribed therein prior to the issuance of any special license plate under this paragraph.
  (8) A special license plate for antique or hobby or special interest vehicles. As used in this paragraph, the term "antique or hobby or special interest vehicle" means any motor vehicle or motor cycle or a motor vehicle which has been designed and manufactured to resemble an antique or historical vehicle and which is owned as a collector's item and for participation in club activities, exhibitions, tours, parades and similar uses but which may be used for general transportation. No owner of such antique vehicle or hobby or special interest vehicle shall be required to obtain any special permits for its operation on the roads of this state. The funds raised by the sale of this license plate shall be deposited in the general fund.
  (9)
    (A) A special license plate for owners of a private passenger car or truck used for transportation purposes unrelated to their role as a firefighter, who are firefighters certified pursuant to Chapter 4 of Title 25 and who are members of fire departments certified pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 3 of Title 25 and motor vehicle owners who are firefighters of legally organized volunteer fire departments which have been certified pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 3 of Title 25. Such license plate shall be inscribed with such letters, numbers, words, symbols, or a combination thereof as determined by the commissioner to identify the owner as a firefighter. The chiefs of the various fire departments shall furnish to the commissioner a list of the certified firefighters and volunteer firefighters of their fire departments who reside in Georgia, which list shall be updated as necessary. Such list shall be made available to county tag agents and shall be the means by which eligibility of an applicant shall be determined; provided, however, that an applicant not appearing on the list may prove qualification by presenting proof of retirement or current certification from his or her chief. The funds raised by the sale of this license plate shall be deposited in the general fund.
    (B) Should a certified firefighter or volunteer firefighter who has been issued a special and distinctive license plate be separated from such firefighter's department for any reason other than retirement from employment, the separated firefighter shall, within 14 days of such separation, return such special and distinctive license plate to the issuing county tag agent. Upon receipt of such special and distinctive license plate, a county tag agent shall reissue a regular license plate and the appropriate revalidation decal for the applicable registration period, at no additional charge, to such former firefighter to replace the special and distinctive license plate. Should a firefighter return to service with the same or another fire department, the chief of the fire department employing such firefighter shall secure the regular license plate of such person and return same to the commissioner, along with a certificate to the effect that such person has become a member of the fire department, and the effective date thereof, whereupon the commissioner shall, upon application and upon the payment of a $35.00 manufacturing fee and all other applicable registration and licensing fees at the time of registration, reissue a special and distinctive license plate to such new member to replace the returned regular license plate.
    (C) Motor vehicle owners who were firefighters certified pursuant to Chapter 4 of Title 25 or were members of fire departments certified pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 3 of Title 25 and who retired from employment as such shall continue to be eligible for the firefighter license plates issued under this paragraph the same as if they continued to be certified and employed as firefighters. Whenever such a certified firefighter who has been issued a special and distinctive license plate is retired from employment with such firefighter's department, the chief of such fire department shall forward to the commissioner a certificate to the effect that such person has been retired. The name of such retired firefighter shall be added to the list described in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph and made available to county tag agents.
    (D) The spouse of a deceased firefighter shall continue to be eligible to be issued a distinctive special firefighter's license plate as provided in this paragraph so long as such person does not remarry.
  (10) A special license plate supporting Rotary International. The design of the special license plate, excepting only the Rotary International logo and motto "Service Above Self" and the years 1905-2005 and any other part of the design owned by others and licensed to the state, shall be owned solely by the State of Georgia for its exclusive use and control, except as authorized by the commissioner. The funds raised by the sale of this license plate shall be deposited in the general fund.
  (11) A special license plate for any Georgia resident who is the owner of a private passenger motor vehicle and provides proof of certification or licensure by the State of Georgia as an emergency medical technician, paramedic, or owner of a licensed ambulance service in the State of Georgia promoting the EMS Star of Life Symbol. Such license plate shall display the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration's EMS Star of Life Symbol and the initials "EMS." The funds raised by the sale of this license plate shall be deposited in the general fund.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 194,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 560,§ 4, eff. 8/4/2020.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 434,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 46,§ 3-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 40, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 594,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2012.
Renumbered from § 40-2-86.22 and amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-77, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 351,§ 1, eff. 5/29/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 576,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
