# § 40-2-47. Permanent registration and license plates for certain trailers

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to the contrary, the owner of any trailer, including:
  (1) Any leased or rented trailer and including single pole and twin-beam trailers and other trailers used in commercial logging or commercial trailers used for the hauling of unprocessed farm products used as or in connection with a motor vehicle, truck, or tractor used as a common or contract carrier for hire, a private carrier, or a motor carrier of property; or
  (2) Any boat trailer, utility trailer, or noncommercial cattle and livestock trailer, shall have the option of obtaining a permanent registration and license plate for such trailer, in lieu of an annual registration and license plate, upon the payment of the one-time fee specified in Code Section 40-2-151 and compliance with the provisions of this Code section.
(b) The certificate of registration and license plate issued for a specific trailer under this Code section shall continue to be valid for the duration of the owner's interest in such trailer. No registration or license plate issued for any trailer under this Code section shall be transferred for any reason and a new registration and license plate shall be required when ownership of the trailer is transferred to a new owner. The payment of the fee for a permanent registration and license plate shall be in addition to and not in lieu of the payment of annual ad valorem taxes on such trailer during the period of December 1 to February 15.
(c) As used in this Code section, the term "leased or rented trailer" means any utility trailer that is owned by and leased or rented out by a person, firm, or corporation in the business of leasing or renting out such trailers.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 101,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2010.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 898, § 5, eff. 7/1/2002.
