# § 40-2-130. Records of certificates of registration

(a) A record of certificates of registration shall be maintained by the commissioner or the commissioner's duly authorized county tag agent. All certificates of registration shall be issued:
  (1) Under a distinctive tag registration number assigned to the vehicle;
  (2) Under the identifying number of the vehicle;
  (3) Alphabetically, under the name of the owner;
  (4) Under the vehicle title number; and
  (5) In the discretion of the commissioner, in any other method the commissioner determines.
(b) The commissioner is authorized and empowered to provide for photographic and photostatic recording of certificate of registration records in such manner as he may deem expedient. The photographic or photostatic copies authorized in this subsection shall be admitted in evidence in all actions and proceedings to the same extent that the originals would have been admitted.
(c) The motor vehicle registration records which the commissioner is required to maintain under this Code section or any other provision are exempt from the provisions of any law of this state requiring that such records be open for public inspection; provided, however, that, subject to subsection (d) of this Code section, the records may be disclosed for use as provided in the federal Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994, 18 U.S.C. Chapter 123, and by the following:
  (1) Any licensed dealer of new or used motor vehicles;
  (2) Any tax collector, tax receiver, or tax commissioner;
  (3) The director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources or his or her designee;
  (4) Any private person who has met the requirements of Code Section 40-2-25, provided that the information shall be used for the sole purpose of effectuating the registration or renewal of motor vehicles by electronic or similar means and that the private person requesting the information has entered into an agreement to provide electronic services to the commissioner or a county tag agent; provided, further, that the information made available pursuant to this paragraph for such purpose shall be limited to the vehicle identification number, the license tag number, the date of expiration of registration, and the amount of tax owed; and
  (5) A person or entity authorized by the commissioner for use in providing notice to the owners of towed or impounded vehicles.
(d) Except as otherwise required in the federal Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994, 18 U.S.C. Chapter 123, personal information furnished under subsection (c) of this Code section shall be limited to the natural person's name, address, and driver identification number. The personal information obtained by a business under this Code section shall not be resold or redisclosed for any purposes other than those permitted under the federal Driver's Privacy Protection Act of 1994, 18 U.S.C. Chapter 123, without the written consent of the individual. Furnishing of information to a business under this Code section shall be pursuant to a contract entered into by such business and the state which specifies the consideration to be paid by such business to the state for such information and the frequency of updates.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 711,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 521, § 8, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 246, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 200, § 1,eff. 10/1/2003.
