# § 40-2-69. License plates for veterans qualifying as totally disabled

(a) Any disabled veteran who is a citizen and resident of this state shall, upon application therefor, be issued a free motor vehicle license plate. As used in this Code section, the term "disabled veteran" shall have the same meaning as that term is defined in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of Code Section 48-5-48.
(b) Any disabled veteran shall, upon application therefor, be issued a free motor vehicle license plate upon presentation of proof that he or she qualifies as a disabled veteran. A disabled veteran who claims that his or her disability is permanent shall furnish proof of such permanent disability through a letter from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.
(c)
  (1) Once a disabled veteran has established his or her eligibility to receive free motor vehicle license plates as a result of being permanently disabled, he or she shall be entitled to receive free plates or free revalidation decals in succeeding years on any automobile, private passenger pickup truck, motorcycle, station wagon, or van type vehicle of three-quarter tons or less that he or she may own or jointly with his or her spouse or minor child own or acquire in the future.
  (2) Once a disabled veteran has established his or her eligibility to receive free motor vehicle license plates but his or her disability has not been determined to be a permanent disability, he or she shall be entitled to receive free plates or free revalidation decals in succeeding years upon furnishing, on an annual basis, proof of his or her status as a disabled veteran through a letter from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs. Such free plates or free revalidation decals shall apply to any automobile, private passenger pickup truck, motorcycle, station wagon, or van type vehicle of three-quarter tons or less that he or she may own or jointly with his or her spouse or minor child own or acquire in the future.
  (3)
    (A) Two license plates or revalidation decals each year shall be furnished for vehicles other than motorcycles to disabled veterans qualifying under this Code section unless the originals are lost. Such plates shall be fastened to both the front and the rear of the vehicle.
    (B) One license plate or revalidation decal each year shall be furnished for motorcycles to disabled veterans qualifying under this Code section unless the original is lost. Such plate shall be fastened to the rear of the vehicle.
  (4) In the event of the death of the person who received the special license plates pursuant to this Code section, upon complying with the motor vehicle laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles, his or her unremarried surviving spouse or minor child may continue to receive the free special license plates and revalidation decals until the remarriage of the surviving spouse or death of the surviving spouse or minor child.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 595,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 345,§ 2, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 104,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 351,§ 1, eff. 5/29/2007.
