# § 40-2-44. Reporting of theft, loss, or mutilation of license plates or revalidation decals; issuance of duplicates or replacements

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, the owner of a motor vehicle shall immediately report the theft, loss, or mutilation of a license plate or revalidation decal to the appropriate law enforcement agency or official, including but not limited to a municipal or county police department or officer, the county sheriff, the Department of Public Safety, or the Georgia State Patrol. Said owner shall obtain a copy of the police report and shall submit such copy to the commissioner with a fee of $8.00 to obtain a duplicate license plate or revalidation decal. Alternatively, the copy of the police report may be submitted to the applicant's county tag agent with a fee of $8.00 in which case the county tag agent is authorized to issue a replacement license plate or decal. In those instances in which a vehicle owner is unable to obtain a police report of such theft, loss, or mutilation of a license plate or revalidation decal, the owner shall be authorized to submit to the appropriate law enforcement agency or official and to either the commissioner or to the county tag agent a sworn affidavit as to such theft, loss, or mutilation in lieu of a police report and obtain a replacement license plate or decal. The county tag agent shall be entitled to retain as compensation for issuance of a replacement license plate or decal the same commission as provided for issuance of a new license plate or decal under the terms and conditions provided in subsection (b) of Code Section 40-2-33.
(b) If the license plate or revalidation decal is mutilated but still legible and if such license plate or revalidation decal is surrendered with the application for the duplicate, the requirements of subsection (a) of this Code section, relating to reporting the theft, loss, or mutilation of a license plate or decal and submitting a copy of a police report, shall not apply.
(c) A duplicate county decal when the original has been lost, defaced, or destroyed may be obtained from the commissioner at no cost. A replacement license plate or revalidation decal when the original has been lost in the mail prior to receipt by the registered owner shall be issued by the commissioner without charge upon application and completion of the form and affidavit prescribed by the commissioner setting forth the circumstances of nonreceipt of the license plate or decal. The owner shall report the nonreceipt or loss of the license plate or decal to the appropriate law enforcement agency or official, including, but not limited to, a municipal or county police department or officer, the county sheriff, or the Department of Public Safety. Said owner shall obtain a copy of the police report on which the license plate or decal number is listed and shall submit such copy to the commissioner. The owner shall not be charged a fee by the Department of Public Safety or the local law enforcement agency or official for a copy of such police report.
(d) The commissioner is authorized to establish procedures and promulgate rules and regulations for carrying out this Code section.
