# § 40-2-53. License plates for fleet motor vehicles

(a) Upon electronic submission of all applicable requirements of this article, the department shall send notification of such to the county tag agent. Upon receipt of such notification from the department, the county tag agent shall issue to the applicant a fleet motor vehicle license plate for each vehicle of the fleet to be registered and licensed in such county.
(b) Fleet motor vehicle license plates shall be similar in design to regular license plates issued under Code Section 40-2-31, except that such fleet motor vehicle license plates shall contain such words or symbols, in addition to the numbers and letters otherwise prescribed by law, so as to distinctively identify the motor vehicles on which they are placed as fleet motor vehicles. Such motor vehicle license plates shall contain the word "FLEET" in the location of and in lieu of the revalidation decal required under Code Section 40-2-8 so as to distinctly identify the motor vehicle as part of an enrolled fleet.
(c) License plates issued under this Code section shall be renewed annually upon payment of a renewal fee to the department. Such fee shall be the same amount that would be charged for a revalidation decal for such vehicle.
(d) License plates issued under this Code section may be transferred between vehicles of the same class upon electronic submission to the department of the information required under Code Section 40-2-51 for any vehicle added to an enrolled fleet and the payment of the required registration fees for such additional vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 434,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
