# § 40-2-31. [Effective Until 1/1/2032] License plate design; revalidation and county decals

(a) If the applicant meets the requirements set forth in this chapter, the commissioner shall issue to the applicant a license plate bearing a distinctive number or a distinctive number to be displayed electronically upon a license plate by a digital license plate provider pursuant to Article 2B of this chapter.
(b) License plates issued pursuant to this chapter shall be at least six inches wide and not less than 12 inches in length, except that motorcycle license plates shall be at least four inches wide and not less than seven inches in length and license plates for low-speed vehicles and multipurpose off-highway vehicles shall be a size determined by the commissioner. All license plates shall show in boldface characters the month and year of expiration, the serial number, and either the full name or the abbreviation of the name of the state, shall designate the county from which the license plate was issued unless specifically stated otherwise in this chapter, and shall show such other distinctive markings as in the judgment of the commissioner may be deemed advisable, so as to indicate the class of weight of the vehicle for which the license plate was issued. Any license plate for a low-speed vehicle or multipurpose off-highway vehicle shall designate the vehicle as such. Such plates may also bear such figures, characters, letters, or combinations thereof as in the judgment of the commissioner will to the best advantage advertise, popularize, and otherwise promote Georgia as the 'Peach State.' Plates issued during the years 2026 through 2030 shall include the design approved pursuant to Code Section 40-2-31.1. Except for license plates issued pursuant to Article 2B of this chapter, any license plate issued pursuant to this chapter shall be of such strength and quality that the plate shall provide a minimum service period of at least five years. The commissioner shall adopt rules and regulations, pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the 'Georgia Administrative Procedure Act,' for the design and issuance of new license plates and to implement the other provisions of this Code section.
(b.1) Notwithstanding the provisions of Code Sections 40-2-131 and 48-2-17, the commissioner shall retain the costs of manufacturing and delivery of license plates, revalidation decals, and county name decals from the registration fee as set forth in Code Section 40-2-151; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to license plates issued pursuant to Article 2B of this chapter.
(c) Except for license plates issued pursuant to Article 2B of this chapter, the face of the license plate to be displayed shall be treated completely with a retroreflective material which will increase the nighttime visibility and legibility of the plate. The department shall prepare the specifications which such retroreflective material shall meet.
(d) In those years in which a new license plate is not issued and the license plate was not issued pursuant to Article 2B of this chapter, a revalidation decal with a distinctive serial number shall be issued and affixed in the space provided on the license plate issued to the applicant which shall indicate the year and month through which the registration of the vehicle shall be valid; provided, however, that, if the commissioner determines that it is necessary, two revalidation decals shall be issued for each license plate to reflect the required information. When an applicant is issued a revalidation decal and such applicant registered the vehicle in another county the previous year, the applicant shall also be issued a new county decal which shall be properly affixed to the license plate and shall replace the other county decal.
(e) The commissioner shall furnish without cost to each tag agent reflective adhesive decals in sufficient number, upon which there shall be printed the name of the agent's county. Such a decal shall be issued with each metal license plate and shall be affixed in the space provided on the license plate without obscuring any number or other information required to be present on the plate. A tag agent shall offer, upon such issuance of a new metal license plate, the option of obtaining a county decal or a decal providing for the nation's motto, "In God We Trust."
(f) A county tag agent shall issue a county name decal, upon request, for the agent's county only if:
  (1) The applicant is a resident of or a business located in the county named on the decal;
  (2) The applicant is registering a new vehicle in such county, is renewing a current vehicle registration, or is transferring registration of a vehicle to the county named on the decal;
  (3) The application for registration of the vehicle is being made in the county named on the decal; and
  (4) The license plate was not issued pursuant to Article 2B of this chapter.
(g) The commissioner shall furnish without cost to each tag agent reflective adhesive decals in sufficient number, upon which there shall be printed the nation's motto, "In God We Trust." A tag agent shall offer, upon such issuance of a new metal license plate, the option of obtaining a county decal or a decal providing for the nation's motto, "In God We Trust." Such a decal shall be issued, upon request and free of charge, by a county tag agent with each new metal license plate.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 480,§ 1, eff. 4/23/2024, exp. 1/1/2032.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 241,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 134,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 730,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-67, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 585,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 40, eff. 2/12/2001.
This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
