# § 40-2-62. License plates for current and former members of the General Assembly

The commissioner shall mail special and distinctive license plates printed for members of the General Assembly and former members of the General Assembly who are hereby deemed to have emeritus status after having served in the General Assembly eight or more years to the local tag agent in the counties wherein such members or former members reside on or before the owner's registration period each year. Such special and distinctive license plates shall be issued only upon applications made to the local tag agent and payment of a $25.00 manufacturing fee. License plates may be issued by the local tag agent upon a proper application and in accordance with the terms of this chapter. License plates issued pursuant to this Code section need not contain a place for the county name decal, and no county name decal need be affixed to a license plate issued pursuant to this Code section. Special and distinctive license plates issued pursuant to this Code section shall be renewed annually, and revalidation decals shall be issued upon compliance with the laws relating to registration and licensing and upon payment of an additional registration fee of $35.00 which shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time for collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34. The special license plates issued pursuant to this Code section shall be transferred to another vehicle as provided in Code Section 40-2-80.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 89,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-72, eff. 5/12/2010.
See 2013 Ga. Laws 89, § 4.
