# § 40-2-38.1. Transporter license plate

(a) A person engaged in the business of the limited operation of a motor vehicle or trailer for any of the following purposes may obtain a transporter plate authorizing the movement of the vehicle for the specific purpose:
  (1) To facilitate the delivery of new or used motor vehicles, trucks, trailers, or buses between manufacturers, distributors, dealers, sellers, or purchasers;
  (2) To move a mobile office, a mobile classroom, a mobile or manufactured home, or a house trailer;
  (3) To drive a motor vehicle or pull a trailer that is part of the inventory of a dealer to and from a motor vehicle or trailer trade show or exhibition or to, during, and from a parade in which the motor vehicle or trailer is used; or
  (4) To drive special mobile equipment in any of the following circumstances:
    (A) From the manufacturer of the equipment to a facility of a dealer; or
    (B) From one facility of a dealer to another facility of a dealer.
(b) This Code section shall not be construed to require a motor vehicle or trailer dealer to obtain transporter plates in order to transport vehicles for sale or lease.
(c) A person may obtain a transporter plate by filing an application with the department and paying the required fee. The fee for an initial transporter plate shall be $62.00 and the fee for all additional plates shall be $12.00. An application for a transporter plate must be on a form provided by the department and must contain the information required by the department. The department is authorized to promulgate regulations consistent with this Code section.
(d) Transporter plates issued under this Code section shall be distinguishable from dealer, wholesaler, manufacturer, or distributor plates, as provided for in Code Section 40-2-38.
(e) During the year for which it is issued, a person may transfer a transporter plate from one vehicle to another so long as the vehicle is driven or pulled only for a purpose authorized by subsection (a) of this Code section. In order to obtain a transporter plate, an applicant must demonstrate to the department compliance with all applicable federal and state laws.
(f) The license plates issued pursuant to this Code section shall be revoked and confiscated upon a determination after a hearing that an applicant has unlawfully used such license plates for purposes other than those expressly permitted by this Code section.
(g) If a license plate issued pursuant to this Code section is lost or stolen, the dealer, manufacturer, distributor, or other party to whom the license plate was issued must immediately report the lost or stolen plate to local law enforcement agencies. If a replacement license plate is sought, the dealer, manufacturer, distributor, or other party to whom the license plate was issued shall file a notarized affidavit with the department requesting a replacement plate. Such affidavit shall certify under penalty of perjury that the license plate has been lost or stolen and that the loss has been reported to a local law enforcement agency.
(h) This Code section shall not apply to farm tractors.
(i)
  (1) The expiration of a license plate issued pursuant to this Code section shall be the last day of the registration period as provided in division (a)(1)(A)(ii) of Code Section 40-2-21, except that for the purposes of this subsection, the registration period shall be determined by the first letter of the legal name of the business listed on the application for registration or renewal of registration. An application for renewal of registration shall not be submitted earlier than 90 days prior to the last day of the registration period. A penalty of 25 percent of the total registration fees due shall be assessed any person registering pursuant to this Code section who, prior to the expiration of such person's registration period, fails to apply for renewal or if having applied fails to pay the required fees.
  (2) A transition period shall commence on October 1, 2007, and conclude on December 31, 2007, for all existing registrations and any new registration applications presented prior to January 1, 2008. On or after January 1, 2008, new applications for registration shall be submitted and remain valid until the expiration of such registration as specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(j) The commissioner shall adopt rules and regulations for the implementation of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 594,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 346,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 592,§ 2, eff. 4/27/2006.
