# § 40-2-135. Revocation and seizure of license plates and renewal decals

(a) The commissioner shall revoke any regular, prestige, special, or distinctive license plate which the commissioner determines was issued in error and shall revoke the special and distinctive license plate issued to a member of the General Assembly at such time as the holder ceases to hold such public office. The commissioner or his or her designated agent may revoke any license plate purchased with a check which was returned for any reason. The commissioner shall notify the holder of such regular, prestige, special, or distinctive license plate or of such other license plate of such revocation. The holder of such revoked license plate shall return the license plate to the commissioner or the commissioner's designated agent and register his or her vehicle as otherwise required by this chapter.
(b) The commissioner shall suspend or revoke any permanent registration and license plate issued in accordance with Code Section 40-2-47 when the owner has not complied with the annual requirement of the payment of ad valorem taxes and is delinquent for more than 12 months from the last date of ad valorem tax payment.
(c) Any state or county law enforcement officer or any special agent or enforcement officer appointed under Code Section 40-2-134 may, upon the direction or request of the commissioner, go upon public or private property to seize a license plate or renewal decal which has been revoked as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 14-9, eff. 7/1/2005.
