# § 40-2-136. Surrender of license plates upon second or subsequent convictions of driving under the influence; special license plate for repeat driving under the influence offenders

(a) Upon any person's second or subsequent conviction of violating Code Section 40-6-391 within five years, as measured from the dates of previous arrests for which convictions were obtained to the date of the current arrest for which a conviction is obtained, the court shall issue an order requiring that the license plates of all motor vehicles registered in such person's name be surrendered to the court. The court shall notify the commissioner within ten days after issuing any such order, and the commissioner shall revoke each such license plate upon receiving such notice and, if such license plate is a digital license plate, shall inform the digital license plate provider of the revocation. The court shall issue a receipt for the surrendered license plate or plates. The court shall forward the surrendered license plate or plates to the local tag agent immediately upon receipt; provided, however, that, if the surrendered license plate is a digital license plate, the court shall allow such person to retain the digital license plate. For purposes of this subsection, a plea of nolo contendere shall constitute a conviction.
(b) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, no new license plate or plates may be issued to a person subject to a court order issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section until such person has been issued a limited driving permit or probationary driver's license in accordance with Code Section 42-8-112 or the driver's license of such person has been reissued or reinstated, whichever first occurs; and, except as provided in this subsection or subsection (c) of this Code section, it shall be a misdemeanor for such person to obtain a new license plate or plates.
(c)
  (1) A person who is subject to a court order issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section may apply to the commissioner for authorization to obtain a new license plate or plates bearing a special series of numbers and letters so as to be identifiable by law enforcement officers. Such license plate shall not, in and of itself, constitute probable cause to authorize a traffic stop, search of a motor vehicle, or seizure. The commissioner shall authorize the issuance of such a special license plate only if he or she determines that there is another member of such person's household who possesses a valid driver's license and that a co-owner of the vehicle or a member of the offender's family, other than the offender, is completely dependent upon the motor vehicle for the necessities of life and would be subjected to undue hardship without such special license plate; in no event shall such decision take more than five business days. A local tag agent shall not issue any plates except on written approval of the commissioner, payment of a $20.00 fee for each vehicle for which a special plate is issued, and compliance by the applicant with all applicable state laws. The written authorization from the commissioner shall specify the maximum number of license plates a person may obtain.
  (2) A motor vehicle owned or leased by a person subject to a court order issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section or for which a license plate has been issued subject to paragraph (1) of this subsection may not be sold or conveyed unless the commissioner determines, upon receipt of proper application, that the proposed sale or conveyance is in good faith, that the person subject to such court order will be deprived of custody or control of the motor vehicle, and that the sale or conveyance is not for the purpose of circumventing the provisions of this Code section. Upon making such determination, the commissioner shall transfer the certificate of title to such vehicle and issue a new certificate of registration and license plate.
  (3) If the title to a motor vehicle owned by a person subject to a court order issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section or for which a license plate has been issued pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection is transferred by the foreclosure, cancellation of a conditional sales contract, sale upon execution, or order of a court of competent jurisdiction, the commissioner shall transfer the certificate of title as provided in Code Section 40-3-34 and issue a new license plate to the new registered owner.
  (4) Upon full restoration of the driving privileges of a person subject to a court order under subsection (a) of this Code section, the commissioner shall authorize the person to apply for a regular issue license plate. The fee for a regular issue license plate shall be as provided by Code Section 40-2-151. As a condition of obtaining any regular issue license plate, the person shall surrender his or her special issue license plate to the local tag agent.
  (5) Nothing in this Code section shall be deemed to waive any lawful requirement for the issuance of a license plate including, but not limited to, proof of financial responsibility.
  (6) Display of a license plate issued pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not constitute probable cause for stopping or detaining a vehicle.
  (7) Any person aggrieved by a decision of the commissioner pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection may make a request in writing to the Office of State Administrative Hearings for a hearing. Such hearing shall follow the procedures required by Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 134,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 898, § 5, eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 161, §2-1, eff. 7/1/2001.
