# § 40-2-168. Registration and licensing of taxicabs and limousines; issuance of distinctive license plate

Owners of a taxicab or limousine, prior to commencing operation in this state, shall, upon complying with the motor vehicle laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles, and the payment of an annual registration fee of $25.00, be issued a distinctive license plate by the commissioner. Such distinctive license plate shall be designed by the commissioner and displayed on the vehicle as provided in Code Section 40-2-41. The certificate of registration shall be kept in the vehicle. Revalidation decals shall be issued, upon payment of fees required by law, in the same manner as provided for general issue license plates. Such license plates shall be transferred from one vehicle to another vehicle of the same class and acquired by the same person as provided in Code Section 40-2-42. For all existing registrations, except during the owner's registration period as provided in Code Section 40-2-21, the commissioner shall exchange and replace any current and valid registration and license plate at no charge to the owner. Such license plates shall not be issued to any owner of a taxicab or limousine, as such term is defined in paragraph (4) of Code Section 40-1-151, that is not properly licensed as such by the Department of Public Safety or a political subdivision of this state.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 195,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 381,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2010.
