# § 40-2-88. Reciprocal agreements for registration of commercial vehicles on apportionment basis; registration under the International Registration Plan

(a) In addition to and regardless of the provisions of Article 3 of this chapter or any other provisions of law relating to the operation of motor vehicles over the public highways of this state, the commissioner is authorized to enter into reciprocal agreements or plans on behalf of the State of Georgia with the appropriate authorities of any of the states of the United States, the District of Columbia, a state or province of any foreign country or any political subdivision of a foreign country, or a territory or possession of the United States or any foreign country or any political subdivision of a foreign country providing for the registration of commercial vehicles on an apportionment basis and may, in the exercise of this authority, enter and become a member of the International Registration Plan developed by the American Association of Motor Vehicle Administrators. Any such reciprocal agreement or plan may provide for but shall not be limited to the following provisions:
  (1) full reciprocity in accordance with such agreement or plan for commercial vehicles not based in Georgia, which vehicles are operated in interstate commerce or a combination of interstate and intrastate commerce and are of specified types or weights, in exchange for equivalent reciprocity for Georgia based commercial vehicles;
  (2) reciprocal exchange of audits of records of the owners of such commercial vehicles by the states participating in any such agreement or plan; and
  (3) any other matters which would facilitate the administration of such agreement or plan, including exchange of information for audits enforcement activities and collection and disbursement of proportional registration fees for other jurisdictions in the case of Georgia based commercial vehicles.
(b) Any reciprocity agreement, arrangement, or declaration relating to commercial vehicles in effect between this state and any jurisdiction not a party to such reciprocal agreement or plan or which relates to any matters not covered in such reciprocal agreement or plan shall continue in force and effect until specifically revoked or amended as provided by law.
(c)
  (1) Applications for registration or renewal of registration under the International Registration Plan shall be submitted electronically during the applicable registration period specified in division (a)(1)(A)(ii) of Code Section 40-2-21.
  (2) Any owner of a vehicle required to be registered under the International Registration Plan who does not apply for registration on or before the first day of the registration period for such vehicle as prescribed in paragraph (1) of this subsection, in addition to any other penalty which may be imposed if such vehicle is not timely registered in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection, shall be subject to a late application penalty of 10 percent of the total registration fees due this state. Additionally, the owner of a vehicle required to be registered under the International Registration Plan who does not pay to the commissioner the registration fees due this state on or before the last day of the registration period shall be subject to a late payment penalty in accordance with Code Section 40-2-40. The commissioner may provide by rule or regulation for waiver of penalties provided by this paragraph in cases where failure to timely make application or timely pay fees is due to force majeure.
(d) The provisions of Code Sections 40-2-9, 40-2-22, 40-2-23, 40-2-24, and 40-2-26 shall not apply to vehicles registered under this Code section, except that:
  (1) Registration under the International Registration Plan shall not relieve a registrant from any other taxes due, except as otherwise provided in subsection (h) of Code Section 40-2-152, and registration shall be denied any such vehicle if any Georgia ad valorem property taxes due upon such vehicle are unpaid;
  (2) No vehicle registration or renewal thereof shall be issued to any motor vehicle subject to the heavy vehicle tax unless the owner of the motor vehicle provides satisfactory proof that the heavy vehicle tax imposed by Subchapter D of Chapter 36 of the Internal Revenue Code has been paid for the federal tax year during which the application for registration or renewal thereof is made or that a heavy motor vehicle tax return has been filed with the Internal Revenue Service for the federal tax year during which the application for registration or renewal thereof is made; and
  (3) No vehicle registration or renewal thereof shall be issued without the commissioner's having first received certification that the vehicle sought to be licensed is insured in compliance with the mandatory provisions of Chapter 34 of Title 33, the "Georgia Motor Vehicle Accident Reparations Act."
(e) In the event of conflict between the provisions of this Code section or any agreement entered into under the provisions of this Code section and any other law or provision on this subject, the provisions of this Code section or any agreement entered into under the provisions of this Code section shall prevail.
(f) Each motor carrier registered under the International Registration Plan shall maintain and keep, for the current year and the three preceding years, such pertinent records and papers as may be required by the commissioner for the reasonable administration of this chapter. If a registrant fails to make records available to the commissioner upon proper request or if any registrant fails to maintain records from which its true liability may be determined, the commissioner may, 30 days after written demand for production of or access to the records or notification of insufficient records, impose an assessment of liability based on the commissioner's estimate of the true liability of such registrant as determined from information furnished by the registrant, information gathered by the commissioner at his or her own instance, information available to the commissioner concerning operations by similar registrants, and such other pertinent information as may be available to the commissioner.
(g) The commissioner or any authorized agent of the commissioner is authorized to examine the records, books, papers, and equipment of any motor carrier that are deemed necessary to verify the truth and accuracy of any statement or report and ascertain whether the tax imposed by Code Section 40-2-152 and the International Registration Plan has been properly paid. The duties and powers of the commissioner as specified in Code Sections 48-2-7 through 48-2-11 are expressly made applicable to this Code section.
(h) In lieu of full registration under the International Registration Plan, trip permit registration may be issued for any vehicle or combination of vehicles which could be lawfully operated in the state if full registration or apportioned registration were obtained. A person desiring a trip permit shall make application therefor as prescribed by the commissioner. A trip permit shall be issued for the sum of $30.00. Any vehicle or combination of vehicles for which a trip permit has been issued may be operated in interstate or intrastate commerce in Georgia for a period of 72 hours from the time of issuance.
(i) The department is authorized and empowered to promulgate and to enforce such rules and regulations, including without limitation rules and regulations providing for appointment and regulation of private tag agents and use of electronic and direct registration methods, and to publish such forms as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of the International Registration Plan or any other agreement entered into under the authority set forth in this Code section.
(j) Any person who violates any provision of this Code section shall, in addition to any other penalties provided by any other law, be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 and not more than $250.00.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 468,§ 2-1, eff. 6/30/2020.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 262,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 14,§ 1, eff. 4/10/2013.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 40, eff. 5/13/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 40,eff. 4/18/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 364, §1-3, 7/1/2001.
See 2013 Ga. Laws 14, § 5.
