# § 40-2-90. Operation of vehicles registered in other states

(a) For purposes of this Code section:
  (1) "Nonresident" means any person who does not reside in the State of Georgia but who accepts employment or engages in any trade, profession, or occupation in the state or enters his children in the public schools of this state.
  (2) "Visitor" means any person who does not reside in the State of Georgia and who is not a nonresident as defined in this subsection.
(b)
  (1) Motor vehicles owned by nonresidents may be used and operated on the public streets and highways for a period of 30 days without registering said motor vehicles in the State of Georgia.
  (2) Motor vehicles owned by visitors may be used and operated on the public streets and highways, for pleasure purposes only, for a period of 90 days without registering said motor vehicles in the State of Georgia.
  (3) To be eligible for the exemptions provided for in paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection, a nonresident or visitor shall have fully complied with the laws relating to the registration of motor vehicles of the state or territory wherein he resides, and the registration number and initial letter of such state or territory shall be displayed and plainly visible on such motor vehicles.
  (4) No resident of Georgia shall be entitled to the exemptions provided for in paragraph (1) or (2) of this subsection.
(c) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, a nonresident student who is a resident of a state which is a member of the Multistate Reciprocity Agreement shall be exempt from the requirement of registering his motor vehicle in this state in accordance with the provisions of said Multistate Reciprocity Agreement.
