# § 40-2-41.1. Authentic historical Georgia license plates

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "authentic historical Georgia license plate" means a license plate originally issued in the year 1989 or earlier and originally required to be displayed on motor vehicles operated upon the streets and highways of this state in the year 1989 or earlier pursuant to former motor vehicle registration laws of this state.
(b) The owner of any antique motor vehicle manufactured in 1989 or earlier shall be authorized to display in lieu of and in the same manner as the license plate otherwise required under Code Section 40-2-41 an authentic historical license plate which clearly represents the model year within four years of any such antique motor vehicle, provided that the owner has properly registered such antique motor vehicle for the current year as otherwise required under this chapter and has obtained a current license plate or revalidation decal for such antique motor vehicle. Such currently valid license plate shall be kept in such antique motor vehicle at all times but need not be displayed in a manner to be visible from outside the vehicle.
(c) For purposes of this Code section, the authentic historical license plate shall be furnished by the owner of any such antique motor vehicle.
(d) No later than January 1, 2006, the commissioner shall have installed within the department's computer information system applicable to the registration of motor vehicles the necessary program which will include in the information relating to the current license plate or revalidation decal issued for an antique motor vehicle the information relating to the authentic historical license plate authorized to be displayed on such antique motor vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 368,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2018.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 110,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 40, eff. 4/18/2002.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 308, §2, eff. 7/1/2001.
