# § 40-2-137. Notice of insurance coverage and termination; lapses in insurance coverage; insurance coverage for active duty military personnel

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Commercial vehicle policy" means a policy of motor vehicle liability insurance insuring a motor vehicle that is rated or insured as a business use or commercial use vehicle or is licensed by the state as a commercial vehicle.
  (2) "Fleet policy" means a commercial vehicle policy that insures two or more vehicles that are not identified individually by vehicle identification number on the policy or a commercial policy that is subject to adjustment by audit for vehicle changes at the end of the policy period.
  (3) "Lapse" means one or more days upon which the records of the department do not reflect that a motor vehicle was covered by a policy of minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage.
  (4) "Minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage" means minimum coverage as specified in Chapter 34 of Title 33.
  (5) "Proof of minimum insurance coverage" means the receipt from an insurer by the department of notice of such insurance coverage by electronic transmission or other means approved by the department.
  (6) "Terminate" or "termination" means actual cessation of insurance coverage after the date upon which coverage will not be restored for any reason, including without limitation cancellation, nonrenewal, and nonpayment of premium and without regard to whether such cessation was preceded by any extension or grace period allowed by the insurer.
(b)
  (1)
    (A) For purposes of aiding in the enforcement of the requirement of minimum motor vehicle liability insurance, any insurer issuing or renewing in this state any policy of motor vehicle liability insurance required by Chapter 34 of Title 33 other than a fleet policy shall within 30 days after the date the insurance agent binds the coverage or on the date such coverage was renewed, whichever is applicable, provide notice of such insurance coverage by electronic transmission to the department; except that once coverage data has been electronically transmitted to the department, there shall be no requirement to report on subsequent renewals of that coverage. Insurance coverage information included in such notice of issue or renewal shall be limited exclusively to name and contact information of insurer; vehicle identification number; the make and year of the insured motor vehicle; and policy effective date. The department shall not require the policy limits to be disclosed for purposes of this subparagraph. For the purposes of this Code section, the vehicle identification number shall be the vehicle identification number as that number is shown in the records of the department. For the purposes of this Code section, the Commissioner of Insurance shall furnish such notices to the department upon issuance of a certificate of self-insurance.
    (B) In cases in which the minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage required by Chapter 34 of Title 33 terminates, the insurer shall by electronic transmission notify the department of such coverage termination on or before the date coverage ends or, if termination is at the request of the insured, then on the date such request is processed by the insurer. Insurance coverage termination information included in such notice shall include the vehicle identification number and the date of coverage termination. For the purposes of this Code section, the Commissioner of Insurance shall furnish such notices to the department upon termination of a certificate of self-insurance.
    (C) The commissioner shall notify the Commissioner of Insurance quarterly of any and all violations of the notice requirements of this paragraph by any insurer, and the Commissioner of Insurance may take appropriate action against such insurer the same as is authorized by Code Section 33-2-24 for violations of Title 33; provided, however, that there shall be no private cause of action against an insurer or the department for civil damages for providing information, failing to provide information, or erroneously providing information pursuant to this Code section. No insurer shall utilize the costs of any audit or examination conducted by the Department of Insurance pursuant to this paragraph as a cost of business in the insurer's rate base. The department shall commence the reports provided for in this Code section beginning July 1, 2010.
    (D) The reports required of insurers and the Commissioner of Insurance shall not apply to any vehicle for which the vehicle coverage is provided by a fleet policy.
  (2) The department shall prescribe the form and manner of electronic transmission for the purposes of insurers sending the notices required by this Code section which shall in no way be construed as modifying the provisions of Code Section 33-24-45.
  (3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection, any irregularities in the notice to the department required by paragraph (1) of this subsection shall not invalidate an otherwise valid termination.
  (4) The minimum liability insurance records which the department is required to maintain under this Code section or any other provision are exempt from the provisions of any law of this state requiring that such records be open for public inspection; provided, however, that the records of any particular motor vehicle may be available for inspection by any law enforcement officer for official law enforcement investigations, the insurer of record, and the owner of the vehicle in the manner prescribed by the commissioner.
(c)
  (1) The department shall monitor the reporting by insurers of the issuance of new and renewal policies and the termination of coverage.
  (2)
    (A) A match is based upon the vehicle identification number as recorded on the department's motor vehicle records. When the vehicle identification number does not match the department's motor vehicle records, the department shall notify the insurer and the insurer shall, within 30 days from receipt of the returned error, correct the vehicle identification number and resubmit the transaction.
    (B) After receipt of the department's notice, if the insurer determines that the vehicle identification number that it submitted to the department is in fact the accurate number on the insured vehicle, then the insurer shall so notify the department and the owner of the vehicle.
    (C) Upon notification, the owner shall, in a manner prescribed by the commissioner, make a correction of such number at the appropriate county tag office.
(d)
  (1)
    (A) Upon notification of coverage termination by the insurer, the department shall send a notice to the owner of the motor vehicle stating that the department has been informed of the fact that coverage has been terminated and provide an explanation of the penalties provided for by law.
    (B) The department shall send such notice to the address of the owner of the motor vehicle shown on the records of the department.
    (C) The mailing of such notice by the department shall be deemed notice of such owner's duty to maintain the required minimum insurance coverage and the possible penalties and consequences for failing to do so and shall be deemed to satisfy all notice requirements of law.
  (2) It shall be the duty of the owner of such motor vehicle to obtain minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage and it shall be the duty of the owner's insurer to provide proof of such coverage to the department within 30 days of the date of such notice, pursuant to the requirements of subparagraph (b)(1)(A) of this Code section.
  (3) If the vehicle is covered by a fleet policy, the owner's insurer shall not be required to provide such proof electronically to the department.
(e)
  (1) When proof of minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage is provided within the time period specified in this Code section, but there has been a lapse of coverage for a period of more than ten days, the owner shall remit a $25.00 lapse fee to the department. Failure to remit the lapse fee to the department within 30 days of the date of such notice will result in the suspension of the owner's motor vehicle registration by operation of law. If any lapse fee provided for in this Code section is paid to the county tax commissioner, the county shall retain $5.00 thereof as a collection fee.
  (2) If proof is not provided within the time period specified in this Code section that minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage is in effect, the owner's motor vehicle registration shall be suspended immediately by operation of law by the department. When such proof is provided and the owner pays a $25.00 lapse fee and pays a $60.00 restoration fee, the suspension shall terminate; provided, however, that the commissioner may waive the lapse fee and restoration fee for any owner whose vehicle registration has been suspended pursuant to this paragraph who provides proof of continuous minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage. If any restoration fee provided for in this Code section is paid to the county tax commissioner, the county shall retain $10.00 thereof as a collection fee.
  (3) In the event of a second suspension of the owner's registration under this Code section, within a five-year period of a prior suspension, the department by operation of law shall suspend the motor vehicle registration. When proof is provided that minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage is in effect and the owner pays a $25.00 lapse fee and pays a $60.00 restoration fee, the suspension shall terminate.
  (4) In the event of a third or subsequent suspension of the owner's registration under this Code section, within the previous five-year period from the date of the third or subsequent suspension, the department by operation of law shall revoke the motor vehicle registration. When proof is provided that minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage is in effect and the owner pays a $25.00 lapse fee and pays a $160.00 restoration fee, the owner may apply for registration of the motor vehicle.
(f)
  (1) The commissioner may waive the lapse fee for any owner whose vehicle registration has been voluntarily canceled pursuant to Code Section 40-2-10.
  (2) Upon being presented with a copy of official orders or other satisfactory proof of ordered duty as approved by rule or regulation of the commissioner showing that an owner of a motor vehicle was deployed outside the continental United States on active military duty in the armed forces of the United States at the time his or her minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage for such vehicle terminated, the county tag agent shall waive the lapse fee and restoration fee, suspension of the owner's motor vehicle registration under this Code section shall terminate, and application for registration of the vehicle which otherwise satisfies requirements provided by law may be accepted without delay.
(g) The county tax commissioner shall have the authority to waive a lapse fee if sufficient proof is provided that no actual lapse in coverage occurred. Such proof shall be retained by the county tax commissioner for audit purposes.
(h) Notwithstanding any provision of law to the contrary, a person on active military duty in the armed forces of the United States whose motor vehicle is registered in this state and has license plates from this state and who, as a result of his or her military duties or assignment, is required to reside in another state may meet the requirements for minimum motor vehicle liability coverage by purchasing such coverage in amounts equal to or greater than the minimum coverages required by Georgia law and providing proof of such coverage to the department. In such cases, the motor vehicle shall continue to be registered and licensed in this state as long as it otherwise meets the requirements of law.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 458,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 40, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-99, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 381,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 752,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 14-10, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 40, eff. 5/13/2004.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 582, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 881, § 3, eff. 11/1/2002.
