# § 40-2-61. License plates for U.S. Senators and Congressmen, state constitutional officers, Speaker of the House of Representatives, Justices of Supreme Court, Judges of Court of Appeals, and Public Service Commission members

The commissioner shall design and issue distinctive license plates to each United States Senator and Congressman elected from the State of Georgia, each state constitutional officer, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, each Justice of the Supreme Court and each Judge of the Court of Appeals, and each member of the Public Service Commission to be placed on such official's personal motor vehicle. Each such distinctive license plate shall indicate the individual's elected office and no county name decal need be affixed to such plate as required pursuant to Code Section 40-2-9. The special license plate authorized by this Code section shall be issued to such elected official upon application and payment of a manufacturing fee of $25.00 and upon compliance with the state laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles and shall be transferred as provided in Code Section 40-2-80. Distinctive license plates issued pursuant to this Code section shall be renewed annually, and revalidation decals shall be issued upon compliance with the laws relating to registration and licensing and upon payment of an additional registration fee of $35.00 which shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time for collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34. For purposes of this Code section, the term "state constitutional officer" means the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, Secretary of State, Attorney General, State School Superintendent, Commissioner of Insurance, Commissioner of Agriculture, or Commissioner of Labor.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 28,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2024.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-71, eff. 5/12/2010.
