# § 40-2-167. Separately stated fees in a rental agreement; recoverable fees and taxes

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Heavy-duty equipment motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle with all its attachments and parts which is self-propelled, weighs 1,500 pounds or more, and is primarily designed and used for construction, industrial, maritime, or mining uses, provided that such motor vehicles are not required to be registered and have a license plate.
  (2) "Motor vehicle rental company" means an individual or business entity whose business activity is renting motor vehicles to consumers under rental agreements for periods of 90 days or less or renting heavy-duty equipment motor vehicles under rental agreements for periods of less than 365 days or under open-ended agreements.
  (3) "Recoverable facility charges" means governmental and private concession fees, including airport concession fees, consolidated facility charges, and the fees and charges incurred thereon, actually paid by a motor vehicle rental company.
  (4) "Recoverable fees and taxes" means costs incurred by a motor vehicle rental company to license, title, register, plate, and inspect rental motor vehicles and ad valorem taxes imposed in connection with the registration of rental motor vehicles or a 1 1/2 percent property tax recovery fee on heavy-duty equipment motor vehicles.
  (5) "Rental agreement" means an agreement under which a rental motor vehicle is rented or leased.
  (6) "Rental motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle that is rented or leased without a driver.
(b) Pursuant to a written rental agreement between a motor vehicle rental company and a rental customer, a motor vehicle rental company may include separately stated fees in a rental agreement, which may include, but shall not be limited to, recoverable facility charges and recoverable fees and taxes, as provided in this Code section.
(c) If a motor vehicle rental company includes a charge for recoverable fees and taxes as a separately stated fee in a rental transaction disclosed on the rental agreement, the amount of the charge shall represent the motor vehicle rental company's good faith estimate of the motor vehicle rental company's daily charge as calculated by the motor vehicle rental company to recover its actual total annual recoverable fees and taxes on its rental motor vehicle fleet for the corresponding calendar year.
(d) If the total amount of the recoverable fees and taxes collected by a motor vehicle rental company under this Code section in any calendar year exceeds the motor vehicle rental company's actual recoverable fees and taxes for that calendar year, the motor vehicle rental company shall:
  (1) Retain the excess amount; and
  (2) Adjust the estimated average per vehicle fee for recoverable fees and taxes for the following calendar year by a corresponding amount. Nothing herein shall prevent a motor vehicle rental company from making adjustments to the per vehicle recoverable fees and taxes charge during the calendar year to reflect interim developments affecting the motor vehicle rental company's prior estimated per vehicle fee for such calendar year.
(e) The property tax recovery fee may be assessed if the motor vehicle rental company includes the fee as a separately stated fee on its rental agreement.
(f) The recovery fee authorized by this Code section for recoverable fees and taxes shall be subject to state and local sales and use tax in the manner and to the same extent as the fee charged for the lease or rental of the rental motor vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 764,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 575,§ 1, eff. 5/13/2008.
