# § 40-2-74. License plates for persons with disabilities

(a) Any owner of a private passenger motor vehicle who is a resident of Georgia, upon complying with the motor vehicle laws relating to registration, licensing, and payment of fees and upon submitting an affidavit of a practitioner of the healing arts stating that the owner or his or her spouse, child, or ward is a person with disabilities, as defined in paragraph (5) of Code Section 40-6-221, whose disability or incapacity can be expected to last for more than 180 days and stating the specific disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk, shall be issued a specially designated disabled person's license plate from the commissioner. As used in this Code section, the term "practitioner of the healing arts" means a person holding a license to practice medicine, podiatric medicine, or chiropractic issued pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 34 of Title 43, Chapter 35 of Title 43, or Chapter 9 of Title 43, respectively.
(a.1) Any business registered in Georgia that is a sole proprietorship, a Subchapter "S" Corporation under Subchapter S of Chapter 1 of the Internal Revenue Code, or a single principal limited liability corporation or limited liability partnership which assigns or makes available a passenger motor vehicle for the use of an employee of such business, upon complying with the motor vehicle laws relating to registration, licensing, and payment of fees and upon submitting an affidavit of a practitioner of the healing arts stating that such employee is a person with disabilities, as defined in paragraph (5) of Code Section 40-6-221, whose disability or incapacity can be expected to last for more than 180 days and stating the specific disability that limits or impairs the ability to walk, shall be issued a specially designated disabled person's license plate from the commissioner. The affidavit shall also state that such business vehicle shall be used only or primarily by such disabled employee. If such disabled employee leaves the employment of the company, the company shall surrender the plate to the commissioner within 60 days. In the event that an employee or other person that is not a disabled person uses a business vehicle which has been issued a special plate pursuant to this subsection, he or she shall not avail himself or herself of the privileges afforded under this title to a disabled person with a special plate. Any person who is not a disabled person as prescribed by this Code section and who willfully and falsely avails himself or herself of the privileges afforded to such special plate under this title shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any business to which one or more special plates are issued pursuant to this subsection which is determined by the commissioner to have repeated violations of this subsection by an employee or employees or other person or persons that are not disabled as prescribed by this Code section shall be subject to revocation of such special plate or plates.
(b) A hearing impaired person otherwise qualified under this subsection shall be eligible to have issued to him or her a specially designated disabled person's license plate in accordance with this Code section. As used in this Code section, "hearing impaired person" shall have the same meaning as defined in Code Section 24-6-651, except that the term "hearing impaired person" shall not include any person who is not qualified for a driver's license pursuant to Code Section 40-5-35. For purposes of this subsection, presentation of an identification card for persons with disabilities issued pursuant to Article 8 of Chapter 5 of this title shall constitute proof of hearing impairment.
(c) Upon complying with the motor vehicle laws relating to registration, licensing, and payment of fees and upon submission of proof of disability as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, as applicable:
  (1) Any resident person who is the joint owner of a motor vehicle with a disabled person as prescribed in this Code section shall be authorized to obtain such specialized plates for such jointly owned vehicle; and
  (2) Any resident motor vehicle owner who is the spouse, parent, or legal guardian of a person who is disabled as prescribed in this Code section shall be authorized to obtain such specialized plates for such vehicle. Upon the death of the disabled person or if the joint ownership of such vehicle ceases for any reason, the specialized license plate shall be canceled and the owner of such motor vehicle shall be issued a regular license plate for such vehicle.
(d) The commissioner is directed to furnish such license plates as provided for in this Code section, which shall bear the official international wheelchair symbol or a reasonable facsimile thereof, or such other symbols as the commissioner may deem appropriate.
(e) Any license plate issued pursuant to the provisions of this Code section shall be transferred to another vehicle as provided in Code Section 40-2-80.
(f) Any person who is not a disabled person as prescribed in this Code section or a person otherwise entitled to obtain such special license plates and who willfully and falsely represents himself or herself as having the qualifications to obtain the special plates prescribed by this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(g) Any practitioner of the healing arts who knowingly and willfully makes a false or misleading statement in his or her affidavit stating that an applicant is a disabled person as prescribed in this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(h) Any person owning a vehicle bearing the special plates and not entitled to do so under this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 56, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 459,§; 1, eff. 5/6/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 363,§; 3, eff. 1/1/2006.
