# § 40-2-63.1. License plates for public safety first responders injured in the line of duty

(a) Any law enforcement officer, firefighter, emergency medical services personnel, ambulance driver, or other similarly employed public safety first responder who has sustained a major injury through no fault of his or her own during the competent performance of his or her official duties shall, upon application therefor, be issued a free special and distinctive motor vehicle license plate upon presentation of proof that such individual is entitled to receive such special license plate. For purposes of this Code section, a major injury shall be one that was of sufficient seriousness as to require hospitalization or comparable medical treatment and which resulted in permanent disability or disfigurement of the body.
(b) License plates issued pursuant to this Code section need not contain a place for the county name decal as required pursuant to Code Section 40-2-9, and a county name decal need not be affixed to a license plate issued pursuant to this Code section. Special and distinctive license plates issued pursuant to this Code section shall be renewed annually, and free revalidation decals shall be issued upon compliance with the laws relating to registration and licensing. The special license plates issued pursuant to this Code section shall be transferred to another vehicle as provided in Code Section 40-2-80.
(c) The commissioner is authorized and directed to design the license plate, establish procedures, establish standards for proof of eligibility, and promulgate rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 283,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 104,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
