# § 40-2-57. Application for digital license plate; renewals; fees

(a) Any county tag agent with a satisfactory application for registration pursuant to Code Section 40-2-26 which indicates preference for a digital license plate shall inform the commissioner of such request. Upon a request by a digital license plate provider, the department shall transmit any required data to be displayed upon a digital license plate for an applicant to the digital license plate provider. A county tag agent shall ensure an applicant complies with the requirements for registration pursuant to this chapter.
(b) A motor vehicle owner with a digital license plate shall renew the registration annually as provided by this chapter. The department shall notify the digital license plate provider upon satisfactory renewal. Evidence of such renewal shall be displayed upon the digital license plate in a manner that indicates the year and month through which the registration of the vehicle shall be valid. Compliance with this subsection shall satisfy the revalidation decal requirements of this chapter.
(c) A digital license plate provider shall be authorized to collect fees for the provision of digital license plate hardware and for services to such license plate. Such fees may include the cost for the manufacture of the digital license plate, the installation of the digital license plate, and any service or repair plan an applicant may elect to purchase.
(d) Except as provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section, nothing in this article shall exempt an applicant for a digital license plate from the requirements of Code Sections 40-2-8 and 40-2-20.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 134,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2021.
