# § 40-2-27. Registration of motor vehicles not manufactured to comply with federal emission and safety standards; certificate of registration for an assembled motor vehicle or motorcycle or a converted motor vehicle; former military motor vehicles

(a) No application shall be accepted and no certificate of registration shall be issued to any motor vehicle which was not manufactured to comply with applicable federal emission standards issued pursuant to 42 U.S.C.A. Section 7401 through Section 7642, known as the Clean Air Act, as amended, and applicable federal motor vehicle safety standards issued pursuant to 49 U.S.C.A. Section 30101, et seq., unless and until the United States Customs Service or the United States Department of Transportation has certified that the motor vehicle complies with such applicable federal standards and unless all documents required by the commissioner for processing an application for a certificate of registration or title are printed and filled out in the English language or are accompanied by an English translation.
(b) The provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section shall not apply to applications for certificates of registration for such motor vehicles that have a manufactured date that is 25 years or older at the time of application. Certification of compliance shall only be required at the time of application for the issuance of the initial Georgia certificate of registration.
(c) Applications for registration of such motor vehicles shall be accompanied by a Georgia certificate of title, proof that an application for a Georgia certificate of title has been properly submitted, or such other information and documentation of ownership as the commissioner shall deem proper.
(d)
  (1) Before a certificate of registration is issued for an assembled motor vehicle or motorcycle as such term is defined in Code Section 40-3-30.1, such assembled motor vehicle or motorcycle shall have been issued a certificate of title in Georgia and shall comply with the provisions of such Code section.
  (2) Before a certificate of registration is issued for a converted motor vehicle as such term is defined in Code Section 40-3-30.1, such converted motor vehicle shall have been issued a certificate of title in Georgia upon compliance with the inspection provisions of such Code section.
(e) The provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section shall not apply to applications for certificates of registration for former military motor vehicles that are less than 25 years old and manufactured for the United States military or multipurpose off-highway vehicles manufactured after January 1, 2000.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 241,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 40, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 498,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 567,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 727,§ 3, eff. 5/14/2008.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 972, § 2, eff. 7/1/2002.
