# § 40-2-26. Form and contents of application for registration; heavy vehicle tax; satisfactory proof of insurance coverage

(a) All applicants to register a vehicle shall apply to the tag agent of the county wherein such vehicle is required to be returned for ad valorem taxation.
(b)
  (1) Application shall be made by the owner of the vehicle upon a form prepared by the commissioner for such purposes setting forth the name, place of residence, and address of the applicant; a brief description of the vehicle to be registered, including its name and model, the name of the manufacturer, the manufacturer's vehicle identification number, and its shipping weight and carrying capacity; from whom, where, and when the vehicle was purchased; the total amount of all liens, if any, thereon, with the name and address of the lienholder; and such other information as the commissioner may require. Such application shall include a method for indicating whether the application is for a digital license plate issued pursuant to Article 2B of this chapter.
  (2) The commissioner shall further include on such form a place which provides an applicant an opportunity to:
    (A) Designate an alternative emergency contact telephone number that shall be made available to a law enforcement officer making a vehicle tag inquiry with the records of the department or criminal justice information system in the course of conducting official law enforcement business; and
    (B) Indicate that the applicant or an expected driver of the vehicle has a physical, mental, or neurological condition which impedes the applicant's ability to communicate which shall be made available to a law enforcement officer making a vehicle tag inquiry with the records of the department or criminal justice information system in the course of conducting official law enforcement business.
  (3) Any applicant electing to submit information for subparagraph (B) of paragraph (2) of this subsection shall submit an affidavit which attests to the following information:
    (A) A description of the condition or diagnosis which impedes the ability to communicate, including whether such impediment is temporary, intermittent, or triggered by certain events; and
    (B) Whether such condition exists for the applicant or an expected driver of the vehicle, including the name of the expected driver if other than the applicant.
(c)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "heavy vehicle tax" means that tax imposed by Subchapter D of Chapter 36 of the Internal Revenue Code.
  (2) On or after September 30, 1984, no vehicle registration or renewal thereof shall be issued to any motor vehicle subject to the heavy vehicle tax unless the owner of the motor vehicle provides satisfactory proof that the heavy vehicle tax has been paid for the federal tax year during which the application for registration or renewal thereof is made or that a heavy motor vehicle tax return has been filed with the United States Internal Revenue Service for the federal tax year during which the application for registration or renewal thereof is made.
  (3) The commissioner is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations consistent with paragraph (2) of this subsection which are necessary to ensure that the state complies with the requirements of the Surface Transportation Assistance Act of 1982, Section 143, 23 U.S.C. Section 141d.
  (4) The requirements of this subsection are in addition to any requirements of this chapter relative to the registration of motor vehicles.
(d)
  (1) As used in this subsection, for the purpose of issuing or renewing motor vehicle registration, the term "satisfactory proof" means:
    (A) Any type of proof that is satisfactory or sufficient proof of the owner's insurance coverage under subsection (a) of Code Section 40-6-10;
    (B) Information obtained from the records or data base of the department regarding the owner's insurance coverage which information is derived from notice provided to the department pursuant to Code Section 40-2-137; or
    (C) Such other type of proof of the owner's insurance coverage as may be approved for purposes of this Code section by rule or regulation of the department.
  (2) No vehicle registration or renewal thereof shall be issued to any motor vehicle unless the tag agent receives satisfactory proof that the motor vehicle is subject to a policy of insurance that provides the minimum motor vehicle insurance coverage required by Chapter 34 of Title 33 or an approved self-insurance plan and, in the case of a private passenger vehicle, that such coverage was initially issued for a minimum term of six months; provided, however, that the owner's inability to register or renew the registration of any motor vehicle due to lack of proof of insurance shall not excuse or defer the timely payment of ad valorem taxes due and payable upon said vehicle.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 150,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 134,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 622,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 381,§ 3.1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 881, § 2, eff. 11/1/2002
