# § 40-2-86. License plates promoting or supporting certain agencies, funds, or nonprofit corporations with proceeds disbursed to the general fund and the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation

(a)
  (1) As used in this Code section, except as otherwise provided in subsection (n) of this Code section, the term:
    (A) "Manufacturing fee" means a $25.00 fee paid at the time a special license plate is issued.
    (B) "Special license plate fee" means a $35.00 fee paid at the time a special license plate is issued.
    (C) "Special license plate renewal fee" means a $35.00 fee paid at the time a revalidation decal is issued for a special license plate.
  (2) In accordance with Article III, Section IX, Paragraph VI(n) of the Constitution, the General Assembly has determined that the issuance of special license plates to support an agency or fund or a program beneficial to the people of this state that is administered by a nonprofit corporation organized under Section 501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the Internal Revenue Code and dedicating a portion of the funds raised from the sale of these special license plates is in the best interests of the people of this state.
(b) The agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation sponsoring the special license plate, in cooperation with the commissioner, shall design special distinctive license plates appropriate to promote the program benefited by the sale of the special license plate. The special license plates shall include a design to be of the same size as general issue motor vehicle license plates and a design to be of the same size as motorcycle license plates. Such special license plates shall also include a unique design and identifying number, whereby the total number of characters does not exceed an amount to be determined by the commissioner. If so specified in the design description contained in this Code section for any special license plate, such license plate need not contain a place for the county name decal as required by Code Section 40-2-9. No two recipients shall receive identically numbered plates. The agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation sponsoring the license plate may request the assignment of the first of 100 in a series of license plates upon payment of an additional initial registration fee of $25.00 for each license plate requested.
(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section, no special license plate shall be produced until such time as the State of Georgia has, through a licensing agreement or otherwise, received such licenses or other permissions as may be required to produce the special license plate. The design of the initial edition of any special license plate, as well as the design of subsequent editions and excepting only any part or parts of the designs owned by others and licensed to the state, shall be owned solely by the State of Georgia for its exclusive use and control, except as authorized by the commissioner. The commissioner may take such steps as may be necessary to give notice of and protect such right, including the copyright or copyrights. However, such steps shall be cumulative of the ownership and exclusive use and control established by this subsection as a matter of law, and no person shall reproduce or otherwise use such design or designs, except as authorized by the commissioner.
(d) Any Georgia resident who is the owner of a motor vehicle, except a vehicle registered under the International Registration Plan, upon complying with the motor vehicle laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles and upon the payment of the appropriate fees in addition to the regular motor vehicle registration fee shall be able to apply for a special license plate listed in this Code section. Revalidation decals shall be issued for special license plates in the same manner as provided for general issue license plates.
(e) Before the department disburses to the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation funds from the sale of special license plates, the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation must provide a written statement stating the manner in which such funds shall be utilized. In addition, a nonprofit corporation shall provide the department with documentation of its nonprofit status under Section 501(c)(3) of Title 26 of the Internal Revenue Code. The purposes for which the funds shall be utilized shall be the same as those specified in this Code section authorizing the dedication to the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation of revenue from the sale of special license plates. The agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation shall periodically provide to the commissioner an audit of the use of the funds or other evidence of use of the funds satisfactory to the commissioner. Any agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation which receives funds under subsection (n) of this Code section shall submit annually to the members of the Senate Natural Resources and the Environment Committee, the House Committee on Game, Fish, and Parks, the House Committee on Appropriations, and the Senate Appropriations Committee, and to the commissioner of natural resources a detailed audit containing the disposition and expenditure of all funds received pursuant to such subsection. If it is determined that the funds are not being used for the purposes set forth in the statement provided by the agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation, the department shall withhold payment of such funds until such noncompliance issues are resolved.
(f) An applicant may request a special license plate any time during the applicant's registration period. If such a license plate is to replace a current valid license plate, the special license plate shall be issued with appropriate decals attached upon payment of the manufacturing fee and the special license plate renewal fee.
(g) On or after July 1, 2010, no special license plate authorized pursuant to subsections (l), (m), and (n) of this Code section shall be issued except upon the receipt by the department of at least 1,000 prepaid applications along with the manufacturing fees. The special license plate shall have an application period of two years after the date on which the application period becomes effective for payment of the manufacturing fee. After such time if the minimum number of applications is not met, the department shall not continue to accept the manufacturing fees, and all fees shall be refunded to applicants; provided, however, that, once the department has received 1,000 prepaid applications along with the manufacturing fees, the sponsor shall not be entitled to a refund.
(h) The department shall not be required to continue to manufacture the special license plate if the number of active registrations falls below 500 registrations at any time during the period provided for in subsection (b) of Code Section 40-2-31. A current registrant may continue to renew such special license plate during his or her annual registration period upon payment of the special license plate renewal fee which shall be collected by the county tag agent at the time of collection of other registration fees and shall be remitted to the state as provided in Code Section 40-2-34. The department may continue to issue such special license plates that it has in its inventory to assist in achieving the minimum number of registrations. If the special license plate falls below 500 active registrations at any time during the period provided for in subsection (b) of Code Section 40-2-31, the sponsoring agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation shall be required again to obtain 1,000 prepaid applications accompanied by the manufacturing fees to continue to manufacture the special license plate.
(i) Special license plates shall be transferred from one vehicle to another vehicle in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 40-2-80.
(j) Special license plates shall be issued within 30 days of application once the requirements of this Code section have been met.
(k) The commissioner is authorized and directed to establish procedures and promulgate rules and regulations to effectuate the purposes of this Code section.
(l)
  (1) The General Assembly has determined that special license plates supporting the agencies, funds, or nonprofit corporations listed in this subsection shall be issued for the purposes indicated. The special license plates listed in this subsection shall be subject to a manufacturing fee, a special license plate fee, and a special license plate renewal fee. The revenue disbursement for the special license plates listed in this subsection shall be as follows:
    (A) Manufacturing fee - $25.00 of which $24.00 is to be deposited into the general fund and $1.00 to be paid to the local county tag agent;
    (B) Special license plate fee - $35.00 of which $25.00 is to be deposited into the general fund and $10.00 is to be dedicated to the sponsoring agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation as permitted by Article III, Section IX, Paragraph VI(n) of the Constitution; and
    (C) Special license plate renewal fee - $35.00 of which $25.00 is to be deposited into the general fund and $10.00 is to be dedicated to the sponsoring agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation as permitted by Article III, Section IX, Paragraph VI(n) of the Constitution.
  (2) Reserved.
  (3) Reserved.
  (4) Reserved.
  (5) Special license plates promoting the conservation of wildflowers within this state. The funds raised by the sale of these special license plates shall be disbursed to the Department of Transportation to be deposited in the Roadside Enhancement and Beautification Fund established by Code Section 32-6-75.2 and shall be expended only for the purposes enumerated in Code Section 32-6-75.2 and Article III, Section IX, Paragraph VI(l) of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
  (6) Reserved.
  (7) Special license plates to honor Georgia educators. The funds raised by the sale of these special license plates shall be disbursed to a charitable foundation designated by the State School Superintendent and used to fund educational programs, grants to teachers, and scholarships. The license plates shall display the phrase "Georgia Educators Make A Difference" and a ripe Red Delicious apple shall be depicted to the left of the identifying number of each plate.
  (8)
    (A) The commissioner in cooperation with a college or university may design a special license plate to be issued commemorating that college or university, which license plate shall be similar in design to the license plate issued to all other residents of the state except that the logo or emblem of the college or university shall be placed on the license plate along with the letters and numbers on the license plate. The name of the college or university shall be imprinted on such special license plate in lieu of the county name decal.
    (B) Any college or university that enters into an agreement with the commissioner pursuant to this paragraph shall waive any royalty fees to which it might otherwise be entitled for use of its seal, symbol, emblem, or logotype as provided in this paragraph.
    (C) Each college or university located in Georgia that enters into an agreement with the commissioner pursuant to this paragraph shall designate a charitable foundation which shall annually receive an allocation from the special license plate and special license plate renewal fees collected as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection. Special license plates issued under this paragraph shall be transferred between vehicles as provided in Code Section 40-2-42.
    (D) The funds allocated for colleges and universities located in Georgia shall be delivered by the department to the charitable foundation designated by the particular college or university to support needs based, academic, financial aid scholarships for eligible undergraduate students enrolled in the college or university. The funds otherwise allocated for colleges and universities located outside the State of Georgia shall be placed into the general fund.
    (E) Each college or university shall review and approve plans for the implementation of these scholarship programs by the applicable charitable foundation. These plans shall include, but need not be limited to, criteria for the awarding of the scholarships and procedures for determining the recipients.
  (9) A special license plate for the Georgia Center for the Book to support the purchase of books for public libraries in Georgia. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia Center for the Book.
  (10) A special license plate for Children's Healthcare of Atlanta to support the work this pediatric hospital system does in the State of Georgia. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to Children's Healthcare of Atlanta.
  (11) A special license plate for the Georgia War Veterans Nursing Home to support the implementation and operation of the Georgia War Veterans Nursing Home. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Department of Veterans Service for use in operating the Georgia War Veterans Nursing Home.
  (12) A special license plate for the Georgia Automobile Racing Hall of Fame Association to promote the Georgia Automobile Racing Hall of Fame Association, which is devoted to preserving the history of automobile racing in Georgia. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia Automobile Racing Hall of Fame Association.
  (13) A special license plate for the Alzheimer's Association, Georgia Chapter, to help eliminate Alzheimer's disease through the advancement of research and to enhance care and support for individuals, their families, and caregivers. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Alzheimer's Association, Georgia Chapter.
  (14) A special license plate for the school health and physical education program to help fund school health and physical education programs. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Department of Education.
  (15) A special license plate for stroke awareness, treatment, and prevention to support programs aiding stroke victims in Georgia. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "Stroke Awareness" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Center for Telehealth of the Georgia Health Sciences University.
  (16) A special license plate for Project Lifesaver promoting the establishment of a Project Lifesaver or similar type of program by local law enforcement agencies. Project Lifesaver's mission is to use state of the art technology in assisting those who care for victims of Alzheimer's disease and other related mental dysfunction disorders and victims who become lost. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Department of Public Safety or a nonprofit corporation organized exclusively for the purpose of establishing a Project Lifesaver or similar type of program by local law enforcement agencies.
  (17) A special license plate for pediatric cancer to raise funds to support the treatment of pediatric cancer. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "Cure Kids' Cancer" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Department of Community Health to be deposited in the Indigent Care Trust Fund created by Code Section 31-8-152 to fund pediatric cancer screening and treatment related programs for those children who are medically indigent and may have cancer.
  (18) A special license plate for the child care industry to promote the child care industry by encouraging higher educational standards and providing for professional camaraderie for child care providers. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "Support Improved Child Care" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Minority Alliance for Child Care Development Advocates, Inc., for the development of programs to help improve child care.
  (19) A special license plate to display the motto, "In God We Trust." The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Boy Scouts of America for the development of scouting programs.
  (20) A special license plate for child abuse prevention. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "Prevent Child Abuse" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Foster Family Foundation of Georgia for the development of programs to help victims of child abuse.
  (21) A special license plate for the Thanks Mom and Dad Fund. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Department of Human Services to address the key needs of the state's older population or a nonprofit corporation organized to serve the needs of the state's older population.
  (22) A special license plate for pediatric cancer research. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Joanna McAfee Childhood Cancer Foundation for support of pediatric cancer research. The design of the special license plate provided for in this paragraph shall include the words "Joanna McAfee Childhood Cancer Foundation" horizontally across the bottom of the plate in lieu of the county name.
  (23) A special license plate for supporting beautification projects in Cobb County. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to Keep Cobb Beautiful, Inc., for support of beautification projects in Cobb County.
  (24) A special license plate for AID Atlanta. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to AID Atlanta which is committed to providing people living with HIV the information and support they need to live healthy and productive lives.
  (25) A special license endorsing "Support Our Troops." The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia National Guard Family Support Foundation, Incorporated.
  (26) A special license plate for the Sons of Confederate Veterans. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to Georgia Sons of Confederate Veterans.
  (27) A special license plate for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), also known as "Lou Gehrig's disease," to support research and education on amyotrophic lateral sclerosis. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the ALS Association of Georgia.
  (28) A special license plate for foster parents to support programs for foster parents in Georgia. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to The Adoptive and Foster Parent Association of Georgia, Inc., for support of foster parents in Georgia.
  (29) A special license plate for the Atlanta Braves Foundation to assist the charities supported by the foundation. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Department of Community Affairs or such other public agency or nonprofit corporation as may be designated.
  (30) A special license plate for the Atlanta Falcons Youth Foundation to assist the charities supported by the foundation. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Atlanta Falcons Youth Foundation. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "Atlanta Falcons" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance.
  (31) A special license plate for supporting beautification projects in Georgia. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to Keep Georgia Beautiful Foundation, Inc., for support of beautification projects in Georgia.
  (32) A special license plate displaying the logo of Choose Life, Inc. The words "Choose Life" must appear at the bottom. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to Choose Life of Georgia, Inc., to be distributed among nonprofit corporations in Georgia that counsel women to consider adoption.
  (33) A special license plate supporting education on the maritime history of Georgia's coast. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to The Georgia Maritime Foundation, Inc., for use in programs supporting education on the maritime history of Georgia.
  (34) A special license plate supporting programs for persons with brain related disorders and disabilities. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to Pilot International for support of programs for persons with brain related disorders in Georgia.
  (35) A special license plate supporting agriculture in Georgia. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be evenly split between Georgia 4-H and the Georgia Association of Future Farmers of America to fund projects promoting agriculture in Georgia.
  (36) A special license plate promoting the Georgia equine industry. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Agricultural Commodity Commission for Equines.
  (37) A special license plate promoting African American history and tourism in Georgia. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to organizations dedicated to the preservation of African American history in Georgia.
  (38) A special license plate honoring veterans who have been awarded the Bronze Star. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the National Guard Family Foundation.
  (39) A special license plate promoting the arts in Georgia. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia Council for the Arts.
  (40) A special license plate supporting programs for the treatment of autism. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Department of Behavioral Health and Developmental Disabilities for the support of programs for the treatment of autism in Georgia.
  (41) A special license plate honoring the work of The Garden Club of Georgia, Inc. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to The Garden Club of Georgia, Inc., and used to fund scholarships that are awarded by the club.
  (42) A special license plate promoting the Georgia Junior Golf Foundation. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia Junior Golf Foundation.
  (43) A special license plate commemorating 100 years of scouting in the United States. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Boy Scouts of America for the development of scouting programs.
  (44) A special license plate supporting Cobb County Public Schools. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Cobb County Public Schools Educational Foundation and used to fund educational programs, grants to teachers, and scholarships in the Cobb County Public School System.
  (45) A special license plate supporting the Georgia Sea Turtle Center. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be charged and disbursed to the Nongame Wildlife Conservation and Wildlife Habitat Acquisition Fund and used to fund nongame wildlife conservation and education programs. The design of the license plate provided for in this paragraph shall include the words "Jekyll Island - Georgia's Jewel" horizontally across the bottom of the plate in lieu of the county name, with a diamond jewel symbol in place of the dash.
  (46) A special license plate commemorating and supporting the sport of soccer in Georgia. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia State Soccer Association, Inc., for the development and promotion of soccer programs in the State of Georgia. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county decal but shall instead bear the legend "gasoccer.org".
  (47) Reserved.
  (48) A special license plate for Zoo Atlanta to support its mission to inspire the citizens of Atlanta and Georgia and all visitors to the zoo to value wildlife on Earth; to help safeguard existing species through conservation by providing for an informative, educational, and engaging experience to all visitors; to carry out the responsible stewardship of the animals and the zoo facility; and to engage in related conservation activities and research. The funds raised by the sale of this special plate shall be disbursed to the Atlanta-Fulton County Zoo, Inc. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "Protect Wildlife" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance.
  (49) A special license plate supporting the Appalachian Trail. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Appalachian Trail Conservancy and used to protect, maintain, and conserve the Georgia portion of the Appalachian Trail and connecting trails, and to promote awareness of wilderness, hiking, and back country recreation. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "www.appalachiantrail.org".
  (50) A special license plate supporting the Atlanta Braves Foundation. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Atlanta Braves Foundation and used in the foundation's philanthropic activities and charitable sponsorships. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "Go Braves."
  (51) A special license plate for the Grady Health Foundation to support and improve the quality of healthcare services. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Grady Health Foundation.
  (52) A special license plate honoring the Omega Psi Phi Fraternity, Inc. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia State Omega Psi Phi Foundation.
  (53) A special license plate honoring Hampton University. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Hampton University Atlanta Chapter Alumni Association.
  (54) A special license plate honoring Zeta Phi Beta Sorority, Inc. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Zeta National Education Foundation, Inc.
  (55) A special license plate honoring Georgia law enforcement officers, with the words "Back the Badge" to be displayed across the bottom. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund.
  (56) A special license plate honoring the Georgia electric utility linemen, with the words "Thank a Lineman" to be displayed across the bottom. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Southeastern Firefighters Burn Foundation.
  (57) A special license plate honoring Georgia Masonic Charities Foundation. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia Masonic Charities Foundation, Inc.
  (58) A special license plate supporting the Georgia Alliance of Boys & Girls Clubs, Inc. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Georgia Alliance of Boys & Girls Clubs, Inc.
  (59) A special license plate promoting autism awareness. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Autism Alliance of Georgia. Such special license plate shall include the phrase "Autism Awareness" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance.
  (60) A special license plate supporting the Atlanta United Foundation. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Atlanta United Foundation and used for the foundation's philanthropic activities. Such special license plate shall not include a space for the county name decal but shall instead bear the phrase "Unite & Conquer".
  (61) A special license plate honoring Alabama A&M University. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Alabama A&M University Alumni Association, Inc., and used to provide scholarships and financial assistance to Georgia residents attending the university. Such special license plate shall include the phrase "Go Bulldogs" in lieu of the county of issuance.
  (62) A special license plate honoring Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Ivy Community Foundation, Inc., of Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.
  (63) A special license plate honoring Tuskegee University. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Atlanta Tuskegee Alumni Club, Inc.
  (64) A special license plate honoring the Georgia Tennis Foundation, with the words "Play Tennis!" to be displayed across the bottom. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia Tennis Foundation.
  (65) A special license plate honoring the Georgia Council on Substance Abuse, Inc., and the Georgia Mental Health Consumer Network, Inc. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed equally to the Georgia Council on Substance Abuse, Inc., and the Georgia Mental Health Consumer Network, Inc. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "Georgia Recovers" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance.
  (66) A special license plate supporting members of the United States Army Rangers. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the National Ranger Memorial Foundation, Inc.
  (67) A special license plate to support members of the United States armed forces. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to Support Our Troops, Inc.
  (68) A special license plate supporting the Tybee Island Historical Society. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Tybee Island Historical Society.
  (69) A special license plate to support members of the Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Inc. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to Southeastern Education & Leadership Foundation (SELF).
  (70) A special license plate honoring Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Alpha Georgia Education Foundation, Inc.
(m)
  (1) The General Assembly has determined that the following special license plates supporting the agencies, funds, or nonprofit corporations listed in this subsection shall be issued for the purposes indicated. The special license plates listed in this subsection shall be subject to a manufacturing fee, a special license plate fee, and a special license plate renewal fee. The revenue disbursement for the special license plates listed in this subsection shall be as follows:
    (A) Manufacturing fee - $25.00 of which $24.00 is to be deposited into the general fund and $1.00 to be paid to the local county tag agent;
    (B) Special license plate fee - $35.00 of which $13.00 is to be deposited into the general fund and $22.00 is to be dedicated to the sponsoring agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation; and
    (C) Special license plate renewal fee - $35.00 of which $13.00 is to be deposited into the general fund and $22.00 is to be dedicated to the sponsoring agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation.
  (2) A special license plate promoting the United States Disabled Athletes Fund, for the support of disabled athletes. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the United States Disabled Athletes Fund.
  (3) A special license plate commemorating Civil War battlefields and historic sites. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Civil War Commission for the acquisition of Civil War battlefields and associated Civil War historic sites in this state and for the maintenance, protection, and interpretation of the same as provided by Article 5 of Chapter 7 of Title 50.
  (4) A special license plate promoting historic preservation efforts. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Department of Community Affairs to fund historic preservation programs in the state through the Georgia historic preservation grant program as otherwise authorized by law.
  (5) A special license plate promoting bicycle safety. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Governor's Highway Safety Program administered by the Office of Highway Safety in the Department of Public Safety.
  (6) A special license plate honoring families with a member serving in the military. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Department of Veterans Service for use by the National Guard Foundation in carrying out such programs and purposes as may be contractually agreed upon by the department and the foundation.
  (7) A special license plate promoting "Support Georgia Troops." The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Department of Veterans Service for use by the National Guard Foundation in carrying out such programs and purposes as may be contractually agreed upon by the department and the foundation.
  (8) A special license plate promoting NASCAR. The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection notwithstanding, from the additional $35.00 special license plate renewal fee charged for the issuance and renewal of the NASCAR license plates authorized under this paragraph, $10.25 shall be used by the department for purchasing plates from the supplier of the plates, as designated by NASCAR, and royalty costs, $10.00 shall be deposited in the general fund, and $14.75 shall be disbursed to the Governor's Highway Safety Program administered by the Office of Highway Safety in the Department of Public Safety.
  (9) A special license plate to support breast cancer related programs for the medically indigent. The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection notwithstanding, from the additional $35.00 special license plate fee or special license plate renewal fee charged for the issuance and renewal of breast cancer license plates authorized under this paragraph, $12.95 shall be deposited in the general fund and $22.05 shall be deposited in the Indigent Care Trust Fund created by Code Section 31-8-152 to fund cancer screening and treatment related to programs for those persons who are medically indigent and may have breast cancer. To the extent consistent with Article III, Section IX, Paragraph VI(i) of the Constitution and Article 6 of Chapter 8 of Title 31, such programs may include education, breast cancer screening, grants-in-aid to breast cancer victims, pharmacy assistance programs for breast cancer victims, and other projects to encourage public support for the special license plate and the activities which it funds. Any such special license plate issued for the first time on or before June 30, 2021, shall include a logo the same as the United States postal stamp supporting breast cancer research and bearing the slogan "Fund the Fight. Find A Cure." over the sketch of a woman and the breast cancer awareness pink ribbon symbol. Any special license plate featuring such postal stamp design may be renewed after June 30, 2021, as otherwise provided for by this chapter. On and after July 1, 2021, any special license plate issued for the first time pursuant to this paragraph shall include the pink ribbon symbol which designates the fight against breast cancer and such other design as may be approved by the commissioner without the slogan "Fund the Fight. Find a Cure."
  (10) A special license plate to support prostate cancer related awareness and research programs. The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection notwithstanding, from the additional $35.00 special license plate fee or special license plate renewal fee charged for the issuance and renewal of prostate cancer license plates authorized under this paragraph, $13.00 shall be deposited in the general fund and $22.00 shall be disbursed to the Georgia Prostate Cancer Coalition to fund prostate cancer awareness, research, screening, and treatment related programs.
  (11) A special license plate to support lung cancer related awareness and research programs. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Joan Gaeta Lung Cancer Fund to fund lung cancer awareness, screening, research, and treatment related programs.
  (12) A special license plate to support Georgia nurses and charitable and philanthropic efforts to support, advance, and promote the nursing profession. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Georgia Nurses Foundation of the Georgia Nurses Association for carrying out such programs and purposes.
  (13) A special license plate to support the law enforcement division of the Department of Natural Resources in its protection of wildlife and natural and cultural resources of this state, enforcement of boating, litter, and waste laws, teaching of hunter and boater education classes, and provision of other public safety services to the citizens of this state. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Department of Natural Resources for use by the law enforcement division for the purposes provided for in this paragraph.
  (14) A special license plate promoting the conservation and protection of the official insect of this state, the honey bee. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia Beekeepers Association and shall be used to increase public awareness of the importance of the conservation of the honey bee and for funding and supporting numerous association programs, including but not limited to the training and education of both new and experienced beekeepers, prison beekeeper programs, grants to beekeeping related nonprofit corporations, beekeeping research facilities in this state, and projects that encourage public support for the license plate and the activities it funds. Such special license plate shall include the phrase "Save the Honey Bee" in lieu of the county of issuance.
  (15) A special license plate honoring Georgia's working forests and the benefits they provide to Georgians, with the words "#1 in Forestry" to be displayed across the bottom. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Georgia Forestry Foundation.
  (16) A special license plate to support the Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia, Inc. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection to the Sickle Cell Foundation of Georgia, Inc.
  (17) A special license plate to support the fight against cancer. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia Center for Oncology Research and Education, Inc.
(n)
  (1) The General Assembly recognizes that Code Section 12-3-600 mandates that the best interests of the state are served by providing for the conservation of nongame species of wildlife and has determined that the following special license plates supporting the agencies, funds, or nonprofit corporations listed in this subsection shall be issued for the purposes indicated. The special license plates listed in this subsection shall be subject to a special license plate fee and a special license plate renewal fee. The revenue disbursement for the special license plates listed in this subsection shall be as follows:
    (A) Special license plate fee - $25.00 of which $5.00 is to be deposited into the general fund, $1.00 is to be paid to the local county tag agent, and $19.00 is to be dedicated to the sponsoring agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation; and
    (B) Special license plate renewal fee - $25.00 of which $5.00 is to be deposited into the general fund and $20.00 is to be dedicated to the sponsoring agency, fund, or nonprofit corporation.
  (2) A special license plate promoting the Nongame-Endangered Wildlife Program of the Department of Natural Resources. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Nongame Wildlife Conservation and Wildlife Habitat Acquisition Fund of the Department of Natural Resources for the purposes enumerated in subsection (b) of Code Section 12-3-602. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "Give Wildlife a Chance" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance.
  (3) A special license plate promoting conservation and enhancement of trout populations. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Wildlife Resources Division of the Department of Natural Resources to supplement trout restoration and management programs.
  (4) A special license plate supporting the Bobwhite Quail Restoration Initiative. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Wildlife Resources Division of the Department of Natural Resources to conduct programs designed to enhance the bobwhite quail population in this state. Such programs may include the creation of habitat demonstration areas on state managed wildlife lands, education programs, technical assistance to private landowners in the creation and maintenance of bobwhite quail habitats on their lands, and projects to encourage public support for the license plate and the activities it funds. The Department of Natural Resources may enter into such contractual agreements as may be appropriate to further the objectives of the Bobwhite Quail Restoration Initiative, including entering into contractual agreements whereby private landowners, public agencies, or corporate entities create, preserve, or enhance habitat for bobwhite quail in return for the payment of incentives. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county decal but shall instead bear the legend "Support Wildlife" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance.
  (5) A special license plate promoting marine habitat conservation, restoration, and enhancement. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Coastal Resources Division of the Department of Natural Resources to supplement marine habitat conservation, restoration, and enhancement projects undertaken to increase the abundance of marine fish and invertebrate species.
  (6) A special license plate promoting a dog and cat reproductive sterilization program for a nonprofit corporation. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Georgia Pet Foundation to be used for dog and cat reproductive sterilization, including, but not limited to, grants to nonprofit corporations and vouchers for discounted veterinary sterilization services.
  (7) A special license plate promoting the conservation and enhancement of waterfowl populations and their habitats. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Wildlife Resources Division of the Department of Natural Resources for the purposes of waterfowl habitat restoration, waterfowl research, and waterfowl management programs.
  (8) A special license plate promoting the dog and cat reproductive sterilization support program of the Department of Agriculture. The funds raised by the sale of this special license plate shall be disbursed to the Department of Agriculture and shall be deposited in the special fund for support of the dog and cat reproductive sterilization support program created by Code Section 4-15-1 and Article III, Section IX, Paragraph VI(m) of the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
  (9) A special license plate for the Georgia Aquarium to support its mission as an entertaining, educational, and scientific institution and to promote the conservation of aquatic biodiversity throughout the world. The funds raised by the sale of this special plate shall be disbursed to Georgia Aquarium, Inc. Such license plate shall not include a space for a county name decal but shall instead bear the legend "Georgia Aquarium" in lieu of the name of the county of issuance.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 28,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 737,§ 1, eff. 5/2/2022.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 222,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 242,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 560,§ 3, eff. 8/4/2020.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 381,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 284,§ 1, eff. 5/7/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 283,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 276,§ 1, eff. 5/7/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 220,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2019.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 148,§ 3, eff. 5/2/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 464,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 464,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 464,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 438,§ 1, eff. 5/7/2018.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 371,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 368,§ 2, eff. 5/3/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 249,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 245,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 40, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 331,§ 2, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 104,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 481,§ 1 to § 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 89,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 594,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 40, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 381,§ 4.1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Renumbered from § 40-2-86.21 by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-77, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 179,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-18, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 800,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 725,§ 3, eff. 5/14/2008.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 725,§ 2, eff. 5/14/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 351,§ 1, eff. 5/29/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 947,§ 12, eff. 1/1/2007.
