# § 40-2-85.4. License plates for United States Army Rangers

(a) Motor vehicle and trailer owners who are designated to United States Army Ranger units, past or present, or are graduates of the United States Army Ranger School shall be eligible to receive special and distinctive vehicle license plates for private passenger cars, trucks, motorcycles, or recreational vehicles used for personal transportation. Such license plates shall be issued in compliance with the state motor vehicle laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles as prescribed in Article 2 of this chapter.
(b) A person who qualifies for the special and distinctive license plate pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall make application therefor with the commissioner and include the requisite fee. The commissioner shall design a distinctive license plate as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section and issue the distinctive license plates to qualifying applicants. There shall be no minimum required number of applicants for such distinctive license plate. The commissioner shall promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary to enforce compliance with all state license laws relating to the use and operation of private passenger cars and trucks before issuing these license plates in lieu of the regular Georgia license plates. The additional manufacturing fee for such special and distinctive license plates shall be $25.00. The commissioner is specifically authorized to promulgate all rules and regulations necessary to ensure compliance in instances where such vehicles have been transferred or sold.
(c) The special and distinctive vehicle license plates shall be as prescribed in Article 2 of this chapter for private passenger cars or trucks used for personal transportation, except that the commissioner shall include a special design to identify the owner as a United States Army Ranger.
(d) The license plate issued pursuant to this Code section shall be transferred between vehicles as provided in Code Section 40-2-80.

## History

Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 560,§ 2, eff. 8/4/2020.
