# § 52-7-12.5. Ordering drug, alcohol, or other substance tests; implied consent warning; reports; suspension; hearing; certificate of inspection

(a) The test or tests required under Code Section 52-7-12 shall be administered as soon as possible at the request of a law enforcement officer having reasonable grounds to believe that the person has been operating or was in actual physical control of a moving vessel upon the waters of this state in violation of Code Section 52-7-12 and the officer has arrested such person for a violation of Code Section 52-7-12, any federal law in conformity with Code Section 52-7-12, or any local ordinance which is identical to Code Section 52-7-12 in accordance with Code Section 52-7-21 or the person has been involved in a boating accident resulting in serious injuries or fatalities. Subject to Code Section 52-7-12, the requesting law enforcement officer shall designate which test shall be administered initially and may subsequently require a test or tests for any substance not initially tested.
(b) At the time a chemical test or tests are requested, the arresting officer shall select and read to the person the appropriate implied consent warning from the following:
  (1) Implied consent notice for suspects under 21 years of age: "The State of Georgia has conditioned your privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state upon your submission to state administered chemical tests of your blood, breath, urine, or other bodily substances for the purpose of determining if you are under the influence of alcohol or drugs. If you refuse this testing, your privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state will be suspended for a minimum period of one year. Your refusal to submit to blood or urine testing may be offered into evidence against you at trial. If you submit to testing and the results indicate an alcohol concentration of 0.02 grams or more or the presence of any illegal drug, your privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state may be suspended for a minimum period of one year. After first submitting to the requested state tests, you are entitled to additional chemical tests of your blood, breath, urine, or other bodily substances at your own expense and from qualified personnel of your own choosing. Will you submit to the state administered chemical tests of your (designate which test)?"; or
  (2) Implied consent notice for suspects 21 years of age or older: If any such notice is used by a law enforcement officer to advise a person of his or her rights regarding the administration of chemical testing, such person shall be deemed to have been properly advised of his or her rights under this Code section and under Code Section 52-7-12.6, and the results of any chemical test, or the refusal to submit to a test of such person's blood or urine, shall be admitted into evidence against such person. Such notice shall be read in its entirety but need not be read exactly so long as the substance of the notice remains unchanged."The State of Georgia has conditioned your privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state upon your submission to state administered chemical tests of your blood, breath, urine, or other bodily substances for the purpose of determining if you are under the influence of alcohol or drugs. If you refuse this testing, your privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state will be suspended for a minimum period of one year. Your refusal to submit to blood or urine testing may be offered into evidence against you at trial. If you submit to testing and the results indicate an alcohol concentration of 0.08 grams or more or the presence of any illegal drug, your privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state may be suspended for a minimum period of one year. After first submitting to the requested state tests, you are entitled to additional chemical tests of your blood, breath, urine, or other bodily substances at your own expense and from qualified personnel of your own choosing. Will you submit to the state administered chemical tests of your (designate which test)?"
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall be deemed to preclude the acquisition or admission of evidence of a violation of Code Section 52-7-12 if such evidence was obtained by voluntary consent or a search warrant as authorized by the Constitution or laws of this state or the United States.
(d) If a person under arrest or a person who was involved in any boating accident resulting in serious injuries or fatalities submits to a chemical test upon the request of a law enforcement officer and the test results indicate that a suspension of the privilege of operating a vessel on the waters of this state is required under this Code section, the results shall be reported to the department. Upon the receipt of a report of the law enforcement officer that the officer had reasonable grounds to believe the arrested person had been operating or was in actual physical control of a moving vessel upon the waters of this state in violation of Code Section 52-7-12 or that such person had been operating or was in actual physical control of a moving vessel upon the waters of this state and was involved in a boating accident involving serious injuries or fatalities and that the person submitted to a chemical test at the request of the law enforcement officer and the test results indicate either an alcohol concentration of 0.08 grams or more or, for a person under the age of 21 years, an alcohol concentration of 0.02 grams or more, and the vessel being operated was a motorized vessel having ten or more horsepower or was a sailboat more than 12 feet in length, the department shall suspend the person's privilege to operate a vessel upon the waters of this state pursuant to Code Section 52-7-12.6, subject to review as provided for in this Code section.
(e) If a person under arrest or a person who was involved in any boating accident resulting in serious injuries or fatalities refuses, upon the request of a law enforcement officer, to submit to a chemical test designated by the law enforcement officer as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, no test shall be given; but the law enforcement officer shall report the refusal to the department. Upon the receipt of a report of the law enforcement officer that the officer had reasonable grounds to believe the arrested person had been operating or was in actual physical control of a moving vessel upon the waters of this state in violation of Code Section 52-7-12 or that such person had been operating or was in actual physical control of a moving vessel upon the waters of this state and was involved in a boating accident which resulted in serious injuries or fatalities and that the person had refused to submit to the test upon the request of the law enforcement officer, and the vessel being operated was a motorized vessel having ten or more horsepower or was a sailboat more than 12 feet in length, the department shall suspend the person's privilege of operating a vessel on the waters of this state for a period of one year.
(f)
  (1) The law enforcement officer, acting on behalf of the department, shall personally serve the notice of intention to suspend or disqualify the privilege of operating a vessel on the waters of this state of the arrested person or other person refusing such test on such person at the time of the person's refusal to submit to a test or at the time at which such a test indicates that suspension or disqualification is required under this Code section. The officer shall forward to the department the notice of intent to suspend and the report required by subsection (d) or (e) of this Code section within ten calendar days after the date of the arrest of such person. The failure of the officer to transmit the sworn report required by this Code section within ten calendar days shall not prevent the department from accepting such report and utilizing it in the suspension of an operator's privilege as provided in this Code section.
  (2) If notice has not been given by the arresting officer, the department, upon receipt of the report of such officer, shall suspend the person's privilege to operate a vessel and, by regular mail, at the last known address, notify such person of such suspension. The notice shall inform the person of the grounds of suspension, the effective date of the suspension, and the right to review. The notice shall be deemed received three days after mailing.
(g)
  (1) A person whose operator's privilege is suspended pursuant to this Code section shall request, in writing, a hearing within ten business days from the date of personal notice or receipt of notice sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, or the right to said hearing shall be deemed waived. Within 30 days after receiving a written request for a hearing, the department shall hold a hearing as is provided in Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." The hearing shall be recorded. For purposes of such hearing, a copy of the report required by subsection (d) or (e) of this Code section shall be made a part of the hearing record and shall create a rebuttable presumption that the vessel being operated was a motorized vessel having ten or more horsepower or was a sailboat more than 12 feet in length.
  (2) The scope of the hearing shall be limited to the following issues:
    (A)
      (i) Whether the law enforcement officer had reasonable grounds to believe the person was operating or in actual physical control of a moving vessel while under the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance and was lawfully placed under arrest for violating Code Section 52-7-12.
      (ii) Whether the person was involved in a vessel accident or collision resulting in serious injury or fatality;
    (B) Whether at the time of the request for the test or tests the officer informed the person of the person's implied consent rights and the consequence of submitting or refusing to submit to such test and:
      (i) Whether the person refused the test; or
      (ii) Whether a test or tests were administered and the results indicated an alcohol concentration of 0.08 grams or more or, for a person under the age of 21 years, an alcohol concentration of 0.02 grams or more; and
    (C) Whether the test or tests were properly administered by an individual possessing a valid permit issued by the Division of Forensic Sciences of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation on an instrument approved by the Division of Forensic Sciences or a test conducted by the Division of Forensic Sciences, including whether the machine at the time of the test was operated with all its electronic and operating components prescribed by its manufacturer properly attached and in good working order, which shall be required. A copy of the operator's permit showing that the operator has been trained on the particular type of instrument used and one of the original copies of the test results or, where the test is performed by the Division of Forensic Sciences, a copy of the crime lab report shall satisfy the requirements of this subparagraph.
  (3) The hearing officer shall, within five calendar days after such hearing, forward a decision to the department to rescind or sustain the suspension of the person's privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state. If no hearing is requested within the ten business days specified in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and the failure to request such hearing is due in whole or in part to the reasonably avoidable fault of the person, the right to a hearing shall have been waived. The request for a hearing shall not stay the suspension of the person's privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state; provided, however, that if the hearing is timely requested and is not held within 60 days and the delay is not due in whole or in part to the reasonably avoidable fault of the person, the suspension shall be stayed until such time as the hearing is held and the hearing officer's decision is made.
  (4) In the event the person is acquitted of a violation of Code Section 52-7-12 or such charge is initially disposed of other than by a conviction or plea of nolo contendere, then the suspension shall be terminated. An accepted plea of nolo contendere shall be entered on the operator's record and shall be considered and counted as a conviction for purposes of any future violations of Code Section 52-7-12.
(h) If the suspension is sustained after such a hearing, the person whose privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state has been suspended under this Code section shall have a right to file for a judicial review of the department's final decision, as provided for in Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act"; while such appeal is pending, the order of the department shall not be stayed.
(i) Each time an approved breath-testing instrument is inspected, the inspector shall prepare a certificate which shall be signed under oath by the inspector and which shall include the following language: "This breath-testing instrument (serial no. __________________) was thoroughly inspected, tested, and standardized by the undersigned on (date __________________) and all of its electronic and operating components prescribed by its manufacturer are properly attached and are in good working order."When properly prepared and executed, as prescribed in this subsection, the certificate shall, notwithstanding any other provision of law, be self-authenticating, shall be admissible in any court of law, and shall satisfy the pertinent requirements of paragraph (1) of subsection (c) of Code Section 52-7-12 and subparagraph (g)(2)(C) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 600,§ 1-5, eff. 8/5/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 69,§ 3, eff. 4/28/2019.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 26,§ 9, eff. 5/15/2013.
