# § 52-7-71. Removal and storage of vessels; procedure

(a) Any person who removes a vessel from public property or public water at the request of a law enforcement officer or stores such vessel shall, if the owner of the vessel is unknown, seek the identity of and address of the last known registered owner of such vessel from the law enforcement officer requesting removal of such vessel or such officer's agency within 72 hours of removal.
(b) Any person who removes a vessel from private property or private waters at the request of the property owner or stores such vessel shall, if the owner of the vessel is unknown, notify in writing a local law enforcement agency of the location of the vessel, the vessel certificate of number, and the hull identification number, model, year, and make of the vessel, if known or if readily ascertainable, within 72 hours of the removal of such vessel and shall seek from the local law enforcement agency the identity and address of the last known registered owner of such vessel and any information indicating that such vessel is a stolen vessel.
(c) If any vessel removed under conditions set forth in subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section is determined to be a stolen vessel, the local law enforcement officer or agency shall notify the Georgia Crime Information Center and the owner, if known, of the location of such vessel within 72 hours after receiving notice that such vessel is a stolen vessel.
(d) If any vessel removed under conditions set forth in subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section is determined not to be a stolen vessel or is not a vessel being repaired by a repair facility or is not being stored by an insurance company providing insurance to cover damages to the vessel, the person removing or storing such vessel shall, within seven calendar days of the day such vessel was removed, notify the owner, if known, by certified or registered mail or statutory overnight delivery of the location of such vessel, the fees connected with removal and storage of such vessel, and the fact that such vessel will be deemed abandoned under this article unless the owner redeems such vessel within 30 days of the date such vessel was removed.
(e) If the person identified as the owner fails to redeem such vessel as described in subsection (d) of this Code section, or if a vessel being repaired by a repair facility or being stored by an insurance company providing insurance to cover damages to the vessel becomes abandoned, the person removing or storing such vessel shall, within seven calendar days of the day such vessel became an abandoned vessel, give notice in writing, by sworn statement, to the Department of Natural Resources stating the vessel certificate of number, the hull identification number, the fact that such vessel is an abandoned vessel, the model, year, and make of the vessel, if known or if readily ascertainable, the date the vessel became an abandoned vessel, the date the vessel was removed, and the present location of such vessel and requesting the name and address of all owners, lessors, lessees, security interest holders, and lienholders of such vessel. If a person removing or storing the vessel has knowledge of facts which reasonably indicate that the vessel is registered or titled in a certain other state, such person shall check the vessel records of that other state in the attempt to ascertain the identity of the owner of the vessel.
(e.1)
  (1)
    (A) Upon notice to the Department of Natural Resources as described in subsection (e) of this Code section, then the commissioner may revoke, suspend, deny, or refuse to renew any vessel certificate of number or commercial fishing boat license required by this title or Title 27 which is held by or has been applied for by the person, until all fees connected with removal and storage of the vessel have been paid and any lien acquired under Code Section 52-7-73 for such fees has been satisfied. The person shall be notified of the proposed order for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal personally or by a letter sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the name and address indicated on the application for the certificate of number or license, or both. The proposed order for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal shall become final 30 days after issuance if not appealed as provided in this paragraph.
    (B) Any person whose vessel certificate of number or commercial fishing boat license is proposed for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal under this paragraph shall have the right to enter an appeal in the superior court of the county of his or her residence or in the Superior Court of Fulton County. Such appeal shall name the commissioner as defendant and must be filed within 30 days from the date the notice of the proposed order was sent. The person filing the appeal shall neither be required to post any bond nor to pay the costs in advance. If the person so desires, the appeal may be heard by the judge at term or in chambers or by a jury at the first term. The hearing on the appeal shall be de novo, but no appeal shall act as a supersedeas of any orders or acts of the department.
  (2)
    (A) Upon notice to the Department of Natural Resources as described in subsection (e) of this Code section and delivery of a copy of such notice to the state revenue commissioner, then the state revenue commissioner may revoke, suspend, deny, or refuse to renew any motor vehicle registration required by Title 40 which is held by or has been applied for by the person, until all fees connected with removal and storage of the vessel have been paid and any lien acquired under Code Section 52-7-73 for such fees has been satisfied. The person shall be notified of the proposed order for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal personally or by a letter sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the name and address indicated on the application for the registration. The proposed order for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal shall become final 30 days after issuance if not appealed as provided in this paragraph.
    (B) Any person whose motor vehicle registration is proposed for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal under this paragraph shall have the right to enter an appeal in the superior court of the county of his or her residence or in the Superior Court of Fulton County. Such appeal shall name the state revenue commissioner as defendant and must be filed within 30 days from the date the notice of the proposed order was sent. The person filing the appeal shall neither be required to post any bond nor to pay the costs in advance. If the person so desires, the appeal may be heard by the judge at term or in chambers or by a jury at the first term. The hearing on the appeal shall be de novo, but no appeal shall act as a supersedeas of any orders or acts of the department.
(f) Upon ascertaining the owner of such vessel, the person removing or storing such vessel shall, within five calendar days, by certified or registered mail or statutory overnight delivery, notify the owner, lessors, lessees, security interest holders, and lienholders of the vessel of the location of such vessel and of the fact that such vessel is deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of if not redeemed.
(g) If the identity of the owner of such vessel cannot be ascertained, the person removing or storing such vessel shall place an advertisement in a newspaper of general circulation in the county where such vessel was obtained or, if there is no newspaper in such county, shall post such advertisement at the county courthouse in such place where other public notices are posted. Such advertisement shall run in the newspaper once a week for two consecutive weeks or shall remain posted at the courthouse for two consecutive weeks. The advertisement shall contain a complete description of the vessel, its certificate of number and hull identification number, the location from where such vessel was initially removed, the present location of such vessel, and the fact that such vessel is deemed abandoned and shall be disposed of if not redeemed.
(h) Reserved.
(i) Any person storing a vessel under the provisions of this Code section shall notify the Department of Natural Resources if the vessel is recovered, is claimed by the owner, is determined to be stolen, or is for any reason no longer an abandoned vessel. Such notice shall be provided within seven calendar days of such event.
(j) If vessel information on the abandoned vessel is not in the files of the Department of Natural Resources, the department may require such other information or confirmation as it determines is necessary or appropriate to determine the identity of the vessel.
(k) Any person who does not provide the notice and information required by this Code section shall not be entitled to any storage fees.
(l) Any person who knowingly provides false or misleading information when providing any notice or information as required by this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished as for a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 52, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 512,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 37,§ 2, eff. 5/14/2007.
