# § 52-7-72.1. Penalty for failing to remove unattended vessel

(a)
  (1) If any vessel for which the Department of Natural Resources and the Georgia Crime Information Center have received notice pursuant to subsection (d) of Code Section 52-7-72 has not been removed and is determined not to be a stolen vessel, the commissioner may proceed to take action against the owner as provided by this Code section.
  (2) If any vessel for which the Department of Natural Resources and the Georgia Crime Information Center have received notice pursuant to subsection (d) of Code Section 52-7-72 has been removed, the provisions of this Code section shall not apply and the provisions of Code Section 52-7-71 shall apply instead.
(b)
  (1)
    (A) Upon notice to the Department of Natural Resources as described in subsection (d) of Code Section 52-7-72, then the commissioner may revoke, suspend, deny, or refuse to renew any vessel certificate of number or commercial fishing boat license required by this title or Title 27 which is held by or has been applied for by a person who owns the vessel, until the owner restores and resumes operation of the vessel or removes it from public waters or public property. The person shall be notified of the proposed order for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal personally or by a letter sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the name and address indicated on the application for the certificate of number or license, or both. The proposed order for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal shall become final 30 days after issuance if not appealed as provided in this paragraph.
    (B) Any person whose vessel certificate of number or commercial fishing boat license is proposed for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal under this paragraph shall have the right to enter an appeal in the superior court of the county of his or her residence or in the Superior Court of Fulton County. Such appeal shall name the commissioner as defendant and must be filed within 30 days from the date the notice of the proposed order was sent. The person filing the appeal shall neither be required to post any bond nor to pay the costs in advance. If the person so desires, the appeal may be heard by the judge at term or in chambers or by a jury at the first term. The hearing on the appeal shall be de novo, but no appeal shall act as a supersedeas of any orders or acts of the department.
  (2)
    (A) Upon notice to the Department of Natural Resources as described in subsection (d) of Code Section 52-7-72 and delivery of a copy of such notice to the state revenue commissioner, then the state revenue commissioner may revoke, suspend, deny, or refuse to renew any motor vehicle registration required by Title 40 which is held by or has been applied for by a person who owns the vessel, until the owner restores and resumes operation of the vessel or removes it from public waters or public property. The person shall be notified of the proposed order for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal personally or by a letter sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the name and address indicated on the application for the registration. The proposed order for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal shall become final 30 days after issuance if not appealed as provided in this paragraph.
    (B) Any person whose motor vehicle registration is proposed for revocation, suspension, denial, or nonrenewal under this paragraph shall have the right to enter an appeal in the superior court of the county of his or her residence or in the Superior Court of Fulton County. Such appeal shall name the state revenue commissioner as defendant and must be filed within 30 days from the date the notice of the proposed order was sent. The person filing the appeal shall neither be required to post any bond nor to pay the costs in advance. If the person so desires, the appeal may be heard by the judge at term or in chambers or by a jury at the first term. The hearing on the appeal shall be de novo, but no appeal shall act as a supersedeas of any orders or acts of the department.

## History

Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 37,§ 4, eff. 5/14/2007.
