# § 52-7-12.6. Terms of suspension; return of operating privilege; operation when suspended

(a) Any operator's privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state required to be suspended under subsection (d) of Code Section 52-7-12.5 shall be suspended subject to the following terms and conditions:
  (1) Upon the first suspension pursuant to subsection (d) of Code Section 52-7-12.5 within the previous five years, as measured from the dates of previous arrests for which a suspension was obtained to the date of the current arrest for which a suspension is obtained, the period of suspension shall be one year. Not sooner than 120 days following the effective date of suspension, the person may apply to the department for reinstatement of his or her operator's privilege. Such privilege shall be reinstated if such person submits proof of completion of a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program certified by the Department of Driver Services and pays a restoration fee of $200.00. An operator's privilege suspended pursuant to Code Section 52-7-12.5 shall remain suspended until such person submits proof of completion of a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program certified by the Department of Driver Services and pays a restoration fee of $200.00, unless such conviction was a recidivist conviction, in which case the restoration fee shall be $500.00;
  (2) Upon the second suspension pursuant to subsection (d) of Code Section 52-7-12.5 within five years, as measured from the dates of previous arrests for which suspensions were obtained to the date of the current arrest for which a suspension is obtained, the period of suspension shall be three years. Not sooner than 18 months following the effective date of suspension, the person may apply to the department for reinstatement of his or her operator's privilege. Such privilege shall be reinstated if such person submits proof of completion of a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program certified by the Department of Driver Services and pays a restoration fee of $200.00. An operator's privilege suspended pursuant to Code Section 52-7-12.5 shall remain suspended until such person submits proof of completion of a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program certified by the Department of Driver Services and pays a restoration fee of $200.00;
  (3) Upon the third or subsequent suspension pursuant to subsection (d) of Code Section 52-7-12.5 within five years, as measured from the dates of previous arrests for which suspensions were obtained to the date of the current arrest for which a suspension is obtained, the period of suspension shall be not less than five years and until such person submits proof of completion of a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program certified by the Department of Driver Services and pays a restoration fee of $200.00; and
  (4) Any person convicted of violating Code Section 52-7-12.2, 52-7-12.3, or 52-7-12.4 shall have his or her privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state suspended for three years. Such privilege shall be reinstated after the expiration of the three-year period if such person submits proof of completion of a boating education course approved by the department and pays a restoration fee of $200.00, unless such conviction was a recidivist conviction, in which case the restoration fee shall be $500.00.
(b) In all cases in which the department may return the privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of this state to an operator prior to the termination of the full period of suspension, the department may require such tests of operating skill and knowledge as it determines to be proper, and the department's discretion shall be guided by the operator's past operating record and performance and the operator's payment of a restoration fee of $200.00, unless such conviction was a recidivist conviction, in which case the restoration fee shall be $500.00.
(c) Any person who operates a vessel or personal watercraft on any of the waters of this state at a time when such person's privilege to do so has been suspended shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $500.00 nor more than $1,000.00; provided, however, that for a second and each subsequent conviction within a five-year period measured from the date of the previous arrest upon which a conviction was obtained to the date of the current arrest, such person shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $1,000.00 nor more than $1,500.00. The period suspension of the privilege to operate a vessel on the waters of the state of any person convicted under this subsection shall be extended for an additional six months for each such conviction.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 624,§ 1-22, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 26,§ 10, eff. 5/15/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 31-1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 304, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
