# § 52-7-7.3. Seizure of vessels without hull identification numbers; seizure of related property; inspections

(a) If the hull identification number on a vessel required by Code Section 52-7-7.1 or 52-7-7.2 to have a hull identification number does not exist or has been altered, removed, destroyed, covered, or defaced or the real identity of the vessel cannot be determined, the vessel, and any items used while towing such vessel, may be seized as contraband by a law enforcement agency or the department and shall be subject to forfeiture in accordance with the procedures set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9.
(b) A vessel described in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be sold or operated on the waters of the state unless the department:
  (1) Receives a request from a law enforcement agency providing adequate documentation for a replacement hull identification number; or
  (2) Is directed by written order of a court of competent jurisdiction to issue to the vessel a replacement hull identification number.
(c) The failure to have the hull identification number clearly displayed in compliance with this article shall be probable cause for any law enforcement officer to make further inspection of the vessel in question to ascertain the true identity thereof.
(d) Prior to the vessel being sold or returned to the owner or otherwise disposed of, the department shall assign it a new hull identification number in accordance with federal law.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 3-30, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 456,§ 5, eff. 4/14/2006.
