# § 52-7-12.3. Feticide by vessel

(a) For the purposes of this Code section, the term "unborn child" means a member of the species homo sapiens at any stage of development who is carried in the womb.
(b)
  (1) A person commits the offense of feticide by vessel in the first degree if he or she causes the death of an unborn child by any injury to the mother of such child through the violation of subsection (j) of Code Section 52-7-8.2, Code Section 52-7-12 or 52-7-12.1, subsection (b) of Code Section 52-7-13, subsection (a) of Code Section 52-7-14, or subsection (c) of Code Section 52-7-25, which would be homicide by vessel in the first degree as provided in subsection (a) or (b) of Code Section 52-7-12.2 if it resulted in the death of such mother.
  (2) A person convicted of the offense of feticide by vessel in the first degree shall be guilty of a felony and shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than three years nor more than 15 years.
(c)
  (1) A person commits the offense of feticide by vessel in the second degree if he or she causes the death of an unborn child by any injury to the mother of such child by violating any provision of this title other than subsection (j) of Code Section 52-7-8.2, Code Section 52-7-12 or 52-7-12.1, subsection (b) of Code Section 52-7-13, subsection (a) of Code Section 52-7-14, or subsection (c) of Code Section 52-7-25, which would be homicide by vessel in the second degree as provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 52-7-12.2 if it resulted in the death of such mother.
  (2) A person convicted of the offense of feticide by vessel in the second degree shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished as provided in Code Section 17-10-3.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 793,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 654,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2006.
