# § 52-7-12.7. Suspension of privileges to operate a vessel upon waters of this state for violations of vessel laws

(a) Except as provided for in Code Sections 52-7-12, 52-7-12.5, and 52-7-12.6, and notwithstanding criminal proceedings that may be initiated by law, upon a determination by the department that a person has violated this chapter or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant thereto, is in noncompliance with a citation issued by another state regarding the operation of a vessel, or is suspended by another state from operating a vessel, the department may suspend such person's privilege to operate a vessel upon the waters of this state for a period of up to two years following the determination of such violation, or if the suspension is due to noncompliance with a citation or a suspension regarding the operation of a vessel in another state, then such person's privilege to operate a vessel upon the waters of this state may remain suspended until satisfactory evidence of compliance or restoration of privileges from the other state has been received by the department as such satisfactory evidence is determined by rules and regulations of the department. Such person shall be notified of the proposed suspension personally or by a letter sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery at such person's last known address. The notice shall inform such person of the grounds of suspension, the effective date of the suspension, and the right to review. The notice shall be deemed received three days after mailing. The proposed suspension shall become final 30 days after issuance of notice if the proposed suspension is not appealed as provided in this Code section.
(b) Any person whose privilege is proposed for suspension shall, upon petition within 30 days of issuance of notice given as stated in subsection (a) of this Code section, have a right to a hearing before an administrative law judge appointed by the board. The hearing before the administrative law judge shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and the rules and regulations adopted by the board pursuant thereto. The decision of the administrative law judge shall constitute the final decision of the board, and any party to the hearing, including the department, shall have the right of judicial review thereof in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(c) Any person who operates a vessel on any of the waters of this state at a time when such person's privilege to do so has been suspended under this Code section shall be subject to the provisions of subsection (c) of Code Section 52-7-12.6.

## History

Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 605,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
