# § 36-3-21.1. Counties' agreement to boundary lines; filing of resolutions

(a) At any time after certification of the grand jury presentment to the Governor and prior to a final determination by the Secretary of State under Code Section 36-3-24, the governing authorities of the affected counties may by mutual agreement determine where the boundary line shall be located. Any such agreement shall be evidenced by the adoption of an appropriate concurrent unanimous resolution by the governing authority of each affected county; and each such resolution shall incorporate or incorporate by reference an agreed upon plat, description, or other means of definitely ascertaining the boundary line.
(b) The resolutions of the affected counties shall be filed with the Secretary of State and the Department of Community Affairs, together with the agreed upon plat, description, or other means of definitely ascertaining the county line. If the Secretary of State finds that:
  (1) Such resolutions meet the requirements of this Code section;
  (2) The agreed upon plat, description, or other means adequately defines the boundary line;
  (3) The surveyor, if appointed, has been adequately compensated for services performed to date or adequate arrangements have been made for the payment of such compensation; and
  (4) The agreement is otherwise proper to terminate the boundary dispute, then the Secretary of State may enter a written determination that the disputed boundary line has been determined by agreement as authorized by this Code section. Such written determination, the concurrent resolutions of the affected counties, and the plat, description or other means of definitely ascertaining the boundary line shall be recorded in the same manner and with the same effect provided for in Code Section 36-3-25.

## History

Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 960, § 1, eff. 5/16/2002.
