# § 48-3-42. Filing; effective dates; electronic filings; continuing effectiveness

(a) On or after January 1, 2018, the execution shall be effective as provided by law when such execution is filed by the department with the appropriate superior court clerk.
(b) All executions or writs of fieri facias issued by the department filed or recorded on the general execution docket or lien docket of any county shall be invalid as of December 31, 2017. Any such execution or writs of fieri facias which the department does not show as satisfied, issued in error, or otherwise withdrawn and which was last recorded or rerecorded on the general execution docket within seven years before January 1, 2018, may be renewed for a period of ten years upon the department's filing a renewed state tax execution with the clerk of superior court between January 1, 2018, and February 20, 2018. For priority purposes, a filed renewed state tax execution shall retain its original date of filing. All renewed state tax execution documents shall reflect the original date of filing.
(c) On or after January 1, 2018, any execution and any related releases, cancellations, or other documents submitted by the department for filing with the clerk of superior court shall be submitted for filing electronically.
(d) An execution filed or renewed after January 1, 2018, pursuant to this Code section shall be a lien against and attach to all existing and after-acquired property of the delinquent taxpayer, both real and personal, tangible and intangible, with the same force and effect as any recorded judgment on the lien docket of the superior court clerk.
(e) An execution electronically transmitted to the authority pursuant to this Code section shall be deemed filed and perfected upon its receipt by the authority for transmission to the applicable clerk of superior court. The authority shall provide to the department confirmation of receipt of an execution. Absent evidence of such confirmation there shall be no presumption of filing. Executions filed shall have priority as provided by law.
(f) The lien of an execution filed pursuant to this Code section shall continue in effect until released or withdrawn by the department or until the execution has expired.
(g) The department shall file an execution within five years of the date of a final assessment. An execution filed or renewed after January 1, 2018, shall expire ten years from the date of filing and shall not be subject to renewal by nulla bona or otherwise. The periods of limitation set forth in this subsection shall be tolled and suspended for:
  (1) The duration of an installment agreement between the taxpayer and the commissioner for any tax liabilities contained within an execution plus an additional 90 days;
  (2) If a timely proceeding in court for the imposition or collection of a tax is commenced, the duration of the period until the liability for the tax or a judgment against the taxpayer arising from such liability is satisfied or becomes unenforceable;
  (3) The duration of any enforcement action to collect the liability contained within an execution initiated prior to the expiration of the period of limitations and released after such period of limitations;
  (4) In a case under Title 11 of the United States Code, the running of the period of limitations provided in this Code section shall be suspended and tolled for the period during which the commissioner is prohibited from collecting any tax liability and six months thereafter; or
  (5) The period during which a taxpayer's offer-in-compromise is under consideration by the commissioner.
(h) All executions filed by the department on or after February 20, 2018, shall only attach to real property in the county in which the execution has been filed. After February 20, 2018, no execution previously filed by the department shall be considered to have state-wide attachment to all real property within the state and shall only attach to real property in the county in which the execution has been filed.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 283,§ 4, eff. 2/20/2018.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 257,§ 9, eff. 1/1/2018.
