# § 48-3-14. Procedures to petition to reduce unsatisfied tax execution to final judgment against nonresident; notices

(a) When a defendant in fi. fa. under Code Section 48-3-13 maintains no known residence, place of business, or agent to receive service in this state other than the Secretary of State, the sworn petition shall so allege and, in addition to the allegations prescribed in subsection (b) of Code Section 48-3-13, it shall further allege facts sufficient to show that the respondent personally or by employees or agents engaged in an act or activity within this state giving rise to the liability or obligation for the payment or collection of the tax for which the tax execution was issued and that the act or activity was not insubstantial in its quality or nature in relation to the fair administration of law. The action shall be brought in the superior court of the county in which the respondent formerly maintained a known residence, place of business, or agent to receive service at the time the liability or obligation arose, if such was the case, or, otherwise, in the superior court of any county in which the act or activity giving rise to the tax liability or obligation took place. The petition shall demand service of process by publication as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section.
(b) When it appears from the sworn petition that the respondent engaged personally or by employees or agents in an act or activity within this state giving rise to the liability or obligation for the payment or collection of the tax for which the tax execution was issued, that the act or activity was not insubstantial in its quality or nature in relation to the fair administration of law, and that the respondent maintains no known residence, place of business, or agent to receive service in this state other than the Secretary of State, the superior court in which the action is pending shall order service to be perfected by publication in the paper in which sheriff 's advertisements are printed. The notice shall be published once each calendar week for four consecutive weeks and shall be substantially as follows: IN THE SUPERIOR COURT OF __________________ COUNTY STATE OF GEORGIAThe State of Georgia)ex rel. __________________,)commissioner of revenue,)Action for judgmentPetitioner)on state tax)fi. fa.v.)No. __________________)A.B.,)Respondent)NOTICE BY PUBLICATION TO: A.B., RespondentForeign address (if known)This court, under date of __________________, has found that service by publication upon you in the above case is necessary because of your nonresidence and has ordered this service by publication. Accordingly, you are ordered to be and appear in this court within 60 days from the above date to show cause why tax fi. fa. no. __________________, in favor of the State of Georgia, recorded in book __________________, page __________________ of the execution docket of __________________ County, Georgia, should not be reduced to a judgment of this court.Witness the Hon. __________________, judge of this court.This __________________ day of __________________, __________________.__________________Clerk
(c) If the residence or place of business of the respondent in another state is known, the commissioner shall send by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the respondent at the known address a copy of the petition and order of service by publication and a copy of the newspaper in which each of the four notices is published with the notice plainly marked. When the Secretary of State of this state is appointed agent by law to receive service for a nonresident, a copy of the petition, of the order of service by publication, and of the newspaper in which each of the four notices is published with the notice plainly marked shall also be sent by the commissioner by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the Secretary of State. The copy of the petition and order of service by publication shall be mailed within ten days after the issuance of the order. Each copy of the newspaper shall be mailed within ten days after its publication. Thereupon, the commissioner shall file with the clerk of the superior court in which the action is pending a certificate of compliance with this subsection, which certificate shall be a part of the record of service in the case.
(d) When a defendant in fi. fa. under Code Section 48-3-13 maintains no known residence, place of business, or agent to receive service in this state other than the Secretary of State, the sworn petition shall so allege and, in addition to the allegations prescribed in subsection (c) of Code Section 48-3-13, it shall further allege facts sufficient to show that the respondent personally or by employees or agents engaged in an act or activity within the named county giving rise to the liability or obligation for the payment or collection of the tax for which the tax execution was issued and that the act or activity was not insubstantial in its quality or nature in relation to the fair administration of law. The action shall be brought in the superior court of the county in which the respondent formerly maintained a known residence, place of business, or agent to receive service at the time the liability or obligation arose, if such was the case, or, otherwise, in the superior court of the county in which the act or activity giving rise to the tax liability or obligation took place. The petition shall demand service of process by publication as provided in subsection (e) of this Code section.
(e) When it appears from the sworn petition that the respondent engaged personally or by employees or agents in an act or activity within the named county giving rise to the liability or obligation for the payment or collection of the tax for which the tax execution was issued, that the act or activity was not insubstantial in its quality or nature in relation to the fair administration of law, and that the respondent maintains no known residence, place of business, or agent to receive service in this state other than the Secretary of State, the superior court in which the action is pending shall order service to be perfected by publication in the paper in which sheriff 's advertisements are printed. The notice shall be published once each calendar week for four consecutive weeks and shall be substantially as follows: IN THE SUPERIOR COURT OF __________________ COUNTY STATE OF GEORGIATax collector or tax)commissioner of)__________________ County,)Action for judgmentPetitioner)on local tax)fi. fa.v.)No. __________________)A.B.,)Respondent)NOTICE BY PUBLICATION TO: A.B., RespondentForeign address (if known)This court, under date of __________________, has found that service by publication upon you in the above case is necessary because of your nonresidence and has ordered this service by publication. Accordingly, you are ordered to be and appear in this court within 60 days from the above date to show cause why tax fi. fa. no. __________________, in favor of __________________ County, Georgia, recorded in book __________________, page __________________ of the execution docket of __________________ County, Georgia, should not be reduced to a judgment of this court.Witness the Hon. __________________, judge of this court.This __________________ day of __________________, __________________.__________________Clerk
(f) If the residence or place of business of the respondent in another state is known, the tax collector or tax commissioner shall send by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the respondent at the known address a copy of the petition and order of service by publication and a copy of the newspaper in which each of the four notices is published with the notice plainly marked. When the Secretary of State of this state is appointed agent by law to receive service for a nonresident, a copy of the petition, of the order of service by publication, and of the newspaper in which each of the four notices is published with the notice plainly marked shall also be sent by the commissioner by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the Secretary of State. The copy of the petition and order of service by publication shall be mailed within ten days after the issuance of the order. Each copy of the newspaper shall be mailed within ten days after its publication. Thereupon, the tax collector or tax commissioner shall file with the clerk of the superior court in which the action is pending a certificate of compliance with this subsection, which certificate shall be a part of the record of service in the case.
