# § 48-3-13. Procedures to petition to reduce unsatisfied tax execution to final judgment

(a) When an execution for state taxes remains unsatisfied and an entry of nulla bona has been duly entered on the execution within the immediately preceding 30 day period and the commissioner has reason to believe that the defendant in fi. fa. may have or may come into ownership of assets outside this state, the commissioner may petition the superior court of the county in which the defendant in fi. fa. maintains in this state a known residence, place of business, or agent to receive service for a rule to show cause why the unsatisfied tax execution should not be reduced to a final judgment of the superior court.
(b) The petition provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall name the defendant in fi. fa. as respondent in the action, shall set forth the jurisdiction of the superior court, and shall allege that an execution for state taxes has been duly issued by the commissioner or his deputy on behalf of this state, that an entry of nulla bona has been duly entered on the execution within the immediately preceding 30 day period, and that the commissioner has reason to believe that the respondent may have or may come into ownership of assets outside this state. The petition shall demand that process issue to cause the respondent to appear and answer why the tax execution should not be reduced to a final judgment of the court; that the tax execution including, but stated separately, interest and penalties be reduced to a final judgment of the court; and, in the event that the final judgment is entered, that costs of the action be assessed against the respondent. A true copy of the tax execution shall be attached as an exhibit to the petition and the petition shall be verified under oath by the commissioner to the best of his knowledge and belief.
(c) When an execution for local taxes remains unsatisfied and an entry of nulla bona has been duly entered on the execution within the immediately preceding 30 day period and the tax collector or tax commissioner has reason to believe that the defendant in fi. fa. may have or may come into ownership of assets outside this state, the commissioner may petition the superior court of the county in which the defendant in fi. fa. maintains in this state a known residence, place of business, or agent to receive service for a rule to show cause why the unsatisfied tax execution should not be reduced to a final judgment of the superior court.
(d) The petition provided for in subsection (c) of this Code section shall name the defendant in fi. fa. as respondent in the action, shall set forth the jurisdiction of the superior court, and shall allege that an execution for local taxes has been duly issued by the tax collector or tax commissioner on behalf of the named county, that an entry of nulla bona has been duly entered on the execution within the immediately preceding 30 day period, and that the tax collector or tax commissioner has reason to believe that the respondent may have or may come into ownership of assets outside this state. The petition shall demand that process issue to cause the respondent to appear and answer why the tax execution should not be reduced to a final judgment of the court; that the tax execution including, but stated separately, interest and penalties be reduced to a final judgment of the court; and, in the event that the final judgment is entered, that costs of the action be assessed against the respondent. A true copy of the tax execution shall be attached as an exhibit to the petition and the petition shall be verified under oath by the tax collector or tax commissioner to the best of his knowledge and belief.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
