# § 48-3-3. Executions for nonpayment of taxes collectible by tax collectors and tax commissioners

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "New owner" means the most recent subsequent owner who has purchased such property during the year after January 1, but on or before the due date of that tax bill year and whose deed has been duly recorded in the records of the clerk of the superior court for that county.
  (2) "Owner of record" means the owner whose name appears in the deed record as the owner as of January 1 of that tax bill year.
(b) The tax collector or tax commissioner shall issue executions for nonpayment of taxes collectable by the tax collector or tax commissioner at any time after 30 days have elapsed since giving notice as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section. The executions shall be directed to all and singular sheriffs and constables of this state.
(c) As soon as the last day for the payment of taxes has arrived, the tax collector or tax commissioner shall notify in writing the taxpayer of the fact that the taxes have not been paid and that, unless paid, an execution shall be issued; provided, however, that notice shall not be required for taxes due on personal property and executions may be issued on the day next following the day when taxes are due.
(d) No execution shall be issued against any person who is not the owner of record of the property on the day that the taxes become delinquent if, within 90 days from the due date, such person has provided satisfactory proof to the tax collector or tax commissioner that the property has been transferred by recorded deed and the liability for the payment of ad valorem taxes has been assigned to the vested transferee by written agreement or contract. In such cases, the execution shall be issued against the person who is the new owner of the property on the date that the taxes became delinquent only after such new owner has been sent a notice of the delinquent tax bill, and such notice shall state that the tax collector or tax commissioner intends to issue a tax execution in the new owner's name against such delinquent property if the bill and all applicable interest and other charges are not paid within 30 days of the date of the notice. Such notice shall be mailed by first-class mail to the address of record as shown on the real estate transfer tax declaration form in the records of the clerk of the superior court and to the address shown on the closing documents if presented or to the property location if the address differs from that shown on the real estate transfer tax declaration form. If an execution has already been issued against the owner of record, such execution shall be affirmatively cleared and vacated of record by the tax collector or tax commissioner upon receiving satisfactory proof as provided in this subsection.
(e)
  (1)
    (A) Whenever technologically feasible, the tax collector or tax commissioner, at the time tax bills or any subsequent delinquent notices are mailed, shall also mail such bills or notices to any new owner that at that time appear in the records of the county board of tax assessors. The bills or notices shall be mailed to the address of record as found in the county board of tax assessors' records.
    (B)
      (i) In the discretion of the tax commissioner, a taxpayer shall have the option of receiving tax bills or subsequent delinquent notices via electronic transmission in lieu of, or in addition to, receiving a paper bill via first-class mail. The tax bill shall be transmitted to the taxpayer via email, with delivery or read receipt requested, in portable document format using all email addresses provided by the taxpayer, and the date shown on such transmission shall serve as a postmark. In any instance where such transmission proves undeliverable, the tax commissioner shall mail such tax bill or subsequent delinquent notice to the address of record as found in the county board of tax assessors' records.
      (ii) The commissioner shall develop and make available to tax commissioners a suitable form for use by taxpayers in exercising the option to receive tax bills or subsequent delinquent notices via electronic transmission.
  (2) A new owner shall not be required to pay the interest specified in Code Section 48-2-40, or the penalty specified in Code Section 48-2-44, until 60 days after the tax collector or tax commissioner has forwarded a tax bill to the new owner in accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection. This paragraph shall apply only to the tax bill applicable to the year in which the property was purchased.
(f) The real estate transfer tax declaration form shall provide for and indicate the correct tax map parcel identification number before being accepted by the clerk of the superior court for recordation.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 48, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 259,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 193,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2016.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 48, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 59,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 745,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 48, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 24,§ 2, eff. 4/12/2005.
