# § 48-3-9. Notice of levy to owner of security deed or mortgage; lists; fees

(a) Whenever any real estate is levied upon by the sheriff for taxes, it shall be the sheriff's duty before proceeding to advertise the property for sale as provided by law to give 20 days' written notice of the levy to the record owner of the property and the record owner of each security deed and mortgage affecting such property as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section. The period of 20 days shall begin to run from the time the notice is personally delivered or, when delivered by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery as provided in this Code section, from the date of its mailing. The notice shall contain a description of the land levied upon, the name of the owner of the land, the year or years for which the taxes were assessed, and a statement of the amount of the taxes due, together with the accrued cost. The notice shall be delivered to the owner and any secured parties entitled to notice either in person or by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, with return receipt requested, at the address given on the list. The sheriff shall keep a copy of the notice on which he or she shall enter the date the notice was delivered and how, where, and to whom the notice was delivered.
(b) In order to entitle any owner of a security deed or mortgage to notice as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, the name and address of such owner must be stated:
  (1) on the face of a properly recorded security deed or mortgage from the owner of the property; or
  (2) on the face of a properly recorded transfer of such a security deed or mortgage.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 48, eff. 6/3/2010.
