# § 48-3-40. Purpose; application; definitions

(a) The purpose of this article is to provide a uniform state-wide system for filing notices of state tax executions issued by the commissioner that are in favor of or enforced by the department.
(b) This article shall only be applicable to state tax executions and to the liens of state tax executions as against real and personal property which arise pursuant to Code Section 48-2-56 for tax liabilities administered by the department.
(c) As used in this article, the term:
  (1) "Authority" means the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority.
  (2) "Delinquent taxpayer" means a person owing an unpaid tax liability for which an execution has been filed by the department, unless such execution is released, withdrawn, or expired.
  (3) "Execution" means either a state tax execution or a renewed state tax execution, as applicable.
  (4) "Last known address of the delinquent taxpayer" means the address of the delinquent taxpayer appearing on the records of the department at the time the state tax execution is filed with the superior court clerk.
  (5) "Renewed state tax execution" means any tax execution properly filed by the department prior to January 1, 2018, that is refiled upon implementation of this article.
  (6) "State tax execution" means any execution issued by the department for the collection of any tax, fee, license, penalty, interest, or collection costs due the state.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 283,§ 4, eff. 2/20/2018.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 257,§ 9, eff. 1/1/2018.
