# § 48-3-7. Issuance of alias tax execution to replace lost original; conversion of executions into electronic form

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, when a properly issued tax execution is lost or destroyed, an alias tax execution may be issued upon the filing by the party having the right to control the original execution of a statement under oath of the loss or destruction of such original execution with the judge of the probate court of the county in which the original execution was issued. The judge shall endorse the word "alias" on the alias tax execution. The alias tax execution shall have all the legal force and effect of the lost or destroyed original tax execution.
(b) When a tax execution which was regularly issued by an officer of the state as authorized by law is lost or destroyed, the state officer or the successor to the state officer by whom the same was issued may at any time issue an alias tax execution in lieu of the lost original tax execution. The alias tax execution shall be dated the same date as the original tax execution and the officer shall endorse the word "alias" on the alias tax execution. The alias tax execution shall have all the legal force and effect of the lost or destroyed original tax execution.
(c) The commissioner or his or her duly appointed representative shall be authorized to convert regularly issued original or alias tax executions into electronic form for indexing, storage, archival, retrieval, or transmittal purposes, and any tax execution so converted, whether or not subsequently reduced to paper or other tangible medium, shall be treated as a regularly issued original for all purposes, and the commissioner shall not thereafter be required to maintain an original of such tax execution. Tax executions so converted, when reduced to paper or other tangible medium, shall fully reflect any and all entries or notations made on such tax executions.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 674,§ 3, eff. 5/1/2012.
