# § 16-15-11. Georgia Criminal Street Gang Database; uniform reporting format; confidentiality

(a) Subject to funds as may be appropriated by the General Assembly or otherwise available for such purpose, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall be authorized to establish, develop, manage, and maintain a state-wide criminal street gang data base, to be known as the Georgia Criminal Street Gang Database, to facilitate the exchange of information between federal, state, county, and municipal law enforcement, prosecution and corrections agencies, offices, and departments. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall be authorized to solicit input from law enforcement and prosecuting attorneys in determining useful information for such data base so that information may be used by law enforcement, prosecution and corrections agencies, and other agencies, offices, and departments for investigative, prosecutorial, and corrections purposes.
(b) Once the Georgia Criminal Street Gang Database is created and operational, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall be authorized to notify all federal, state, county, and municipal law enforcement, prosecution and corrections agencies, offices, and departments located in this state that information regarding criminal street gangs and their members and associates shall be entered into the Georgia Criminal Street Gang Database.
(c) The Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall be authorized to create and promulgate a uniform reporting format for the entry of pertinent information received from law enforcement, prosecution and corrections agencies, offices, and departments for use in the Georgia Criminal Street Gang Database.
(d) All state, county, and municipal law enforcement, prosecution and corrections agencies, offices, and departments may timely furnish information acquired relating to criminal street gangs and criminal gang activity to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation to be included in the Georgia Criminal Street Gang Database according to the reporting format developed by the Georgia Bureau of Investigation.
(e) Notwithstanding the provisions of Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, the information and related records associated with the Georgia Criminal Street Gang Database shall not be open to inspection by or made available to the public.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 406,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2010.
