# § 16-15-3. Definitions

(1) "Criminal gang activity" means the commission, attempted commission, conspiracy to commit, or the solicitation, coercion, or intimidation of another person to commit any of the following offenses on or after July 1, 2006:
  (A) Any offense defined as racketeering activity by Code Section 16-14-3, or any offense defined in Code Section 16-15-4.1;
  (B) Any offense defined in Article 7 of Chapter 5 of this title, relating to stalking;
  (C) Any offense defined in Code Section 16-6-1 as rape, 16-6-2 as aggravated sodomy, 16-6-3 as statutory rape, or 16-6-22.2 as aggravated sexual battery;
  (D) Any offense defined in Article 3 of Chapter 10 of this title, relating to escape and other offenses related to confinement;
  (E) Any offense defined in Article 4 of Chapter 11 of this title, relating to dangerous instrumentalities and practices;
  (F) Any offense defined in Code Section 42-5-15, 42-5-16, 42-5-17, 42-5-18, or 42-5-19, relating to the security of state or county correctional facilities;
  (G) Any offense defined in Code Section 49-4A-11, relating to aiding or encouraging a child to escape from custody;
  (H) Any offense of criminal trespass or criminal damage to property resulting from any act of gang related painting on, tagging, marking on, writing on, or creating any form of graffiti on the property of another;
  (I) Any criminal offense committed in violation of the laws of the United States or its territories, dominions, or possessions, any of the several states, or any foreign nation which, if committed in this state, would be considered criminal gang activity under this Code section; and
  (J) Any criminal offense in the State of Georgia, any other state, or the United States that involves violence, possession of a weapon, or use of a weapon, whether designated as a felony or not, and regardless of the maximum sentence that could be imposed or actually was imposed.
(2) "Criminal gang activity" on and after April 18, 2019, shall also mean the commission, attempted commission, conspiracy to commit, or the solicitation, coercion, or intimidation of another person to commit on and after April 18, 2019, any offense defined in Code Section 16-5-46 as trafficking persons for labor servitude or sexual servitude, 16-6-10 as keeping a place of prostitution, 16-6-11 as pimping, or 16-6-12 as pandering.
(3) "Criminal street gang" means any organization, association, or group of three or more persons associated in fact, whether formal or informal, which engages in criminal gang activity as defined in paragraph (1) of this Code section. The existence of such organization, association, or group of individuals associated in fact may be established by evidence of a common name or common identifying signs, symbols, tattoos, graffiti, or attire or other distinguishing characteristics, including, but not limited to, common activities, customs, or behaviors. Such term shall not include three or more persons, associated in fact, whether formal or informal, who are not engaged in criminal gang activity.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 512,§ 1-3, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 31,§ 4, eff. 4/18/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 406,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 616,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
