# § 15-23-3. Board of Trustees of County Fund for the Administration of Alternative Dispute Resolution Programs

(a) There is created in each county in this state a board to be known as the Board of Trustees of the __________________ County Fund for the Administration of Alternative Dispute Resolution Programs. The board shall consist of:
  (1) The chief judge of the superior court of the circuit in which the county is located, or the superior court judge with the longest service if there is no chief judge, or a superior court judge designated by the chief judge or the judge with the longest service;
  (2) The chief judge of the state court, if any, or the state court judge with the longest service if there is no chief judge, or a state court judge designated by the chief judge or the judge with the longest service;
  (3) The judge of the probate court;
  (4) The presiding judge of the juvenile court, if any, or a juvenile court judge designated by that judge;
  (5) The chief magistrate or a magistrate designated by the chief magistrate;
  (6) The clerk of the superior court; and
  (7) One practicing attorney appointed by other members of the board.
(b) The superior court judge on the board shall serve as chairperson of the board. The member who is the practicing attorney shall serve at the pleasure of the other members of the board. All members shall serve without compensation. A majority of the members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of all business that may come before the board.
(c) A member who represents a court which does not participate in the alternative dispute resolution program and against whose litigants the additional costs authorized by this chapter are not assessed may attend all meetings but will be a nonvoting member of the board. The presence of such a member shall not be counted in determining the constitution of a quorum.
(d) Members of any board of trustees of any county fund and other personnel acting in a policy-making capacity shall be immune from any action arising from any act, statement, decision, or omission relating to the implementation of the purposes of this chapter unless the act, statement, decision, or omission is:
  (1) Grossly negligent and made with malice; or
  (2) In willful disregard of the safety or property of any party to the alternative dispute process.
