# § 35-2-101. Jurisdiction; duties and powers; use of dogs to detect controlled substances

(a) The Motor Carrier Compliance Enforcement Section of the department shall have jurisdiction throughout this state with such duties and powers as are prescribed by law.
(b) The primary duties of the Motor Carrier Compliance Enforcement Section shall be as follows:
  (1) Enforcement of laws and regulations relating to the size and the weights of motor vehicles, trailers, and loads as provided for in Article 2 of Chapter 6 of Title 32;
  (2) Enforcement of laws and regulations relating to licensing and fuel tax registration requirements and the reporting of violations thereof to the Department of Revenue;
  (3) Enforcement of safety standards for motor vehicles and motor vehicle components;
  (4) Enforcement of laws relating to hazardous materials carriers;
  (5) Enforcement of all state laws on the following properties owned or controlled by the Department of Transportation or the State Road and Tollway Authority: rest areas, truck-weighing stations or checkpoints, wayside parks, parking facilities, toll facilities, and any buildings and grounds for public equipment and personnel used for or engaged in administration, construction, or maintenance of the public roads or research pertaining thereto;
  (6) Enforcement of Code Section 16-10-24, relating to obstructing or hindering law enforcement officers;
  (7) Directing and controlling traffic on any public road which is part of the state highway system but only in areas where maintenance and construction activities are being performed and at scenes of accidents and emergencies until local police officers or Georgia State Patrol officers arrive and have the situation under control;
  (8) Enforcement of Code Sections 32-9-4 and 40-6-54, relating to designation of restricted travel lanes;
  (9) Enforcement of Code Section 16-11-43, relating to obstructing highways, streets, sidewalks, or other public passages, on any public road which is part of the state highway system;
  (10) Enforcement of Code Section 16-7-43, relating to littering public or private property or waters, on any public road which is part of the state highway system;
  (11) Enforcement of Code Section 16-7-24, relating to interference with government property, on any public road which is part of the state highway system; and
  (12) Enforcement of any state law when ordered to do so by the commissioner.
(c) In performance of the duties specified in subsection (b) of this Code section, certified law enforcement officers employed by the department or designated by the commissioner shall:
  (1) Be authorized to carry firearms;
  (2) Exercise arrest powers;
  (3) Have the power to stop, enter upon, and inspect all motor vehicles using the public highways for purposes of determining whether such vehicles have complied with and are complying with laws, the administration or enforcement of which is the responsibility of the department;
  (4) Have the power to examine the facilities where motor vehicles are housed or maintained and the books and records of motor carriers for purposes of determining compliance with laws, the administration or enforcement of which is the responsibility of the department; and
  (5) Exercise the powers generally authorized for law enforcement officers in the performance of their duties or otherwise to the extent needed to protect any life or property when the circumstances demand action.
(d) The commissioner shall authorize law enforcement officers of the Motor Carrier Compliance Enforcement Section to make use of dogs trained for the purpose of detection of drugs and controlled substances while such officers are engaged in the performance of their authorized duties. If such authorized use of such a dog indicates probable cause to indicate the presence of contraband, the officer or officers shall in those circumstances have the full authority of peace officers to enforce the provisions of Article 2 of Chapter 13 of Title 16, the "Georgia Controlled Substances Act," and Article 3 of Chapter 13 of Title 16, the "Dangerous Drug Act"; provided, however, that the department must immediately notify the local law enforcement agency and district attorney of the jurisdiction where a seizure is made.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 449,§ 5, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 632,§ II-7, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 13A-2, eff. 7/1/2005.
