# § 35-2-16. Subsistence and per diem for employees; retention of badge and weapon upon retirement; salary increases; impact on other statutory provisions

(a) The commissioner shall be authorized to provide for a subsistence and per diem allowance for employees of the department.
(b) The commissioner shall be authorized to pay to sworn employees of the department additional compensation upon any such employee's retirement in the form of the badge and the duty weapon issued by the department to such employee.
(c) The commissioner shall be authorized to grant a salary increase to those sworn employees of the department and those communications officers who have obtained degrees from an accredited member of the Federation of Regional Accrediting Commissions of Higher Education or who have obtained a degree of completion from some other educational institution with respect to a course of instruction related to law enforcement, so long as both the course of instruction and the institution are specifically approved by the commissioner.
(d) This Code section is not intended to repeal existing law concerning the following:
  (1) The authority of the board to pay certain medical expenses incurred by any member of the Georgia State Patrol or the Georgia Bureau of Investigation;
  (2) The authority of the commissioner to provide uniforms and supplies to members of the Uniform Division; or
  (3) The requirement that board and quarters be furnished to every member of the Uniform Division on active duty.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 217,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2021.
