# § 35-2-14. "Peace officer" defined; enforcement of immigration and custom laws

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "peace officer" means peace officer as defined in subparagraph (A) of paragraph (8) of Code Section 35-8-2, as amended.
(b) The commissioner is authorized and directed to negotiate the terms of a memorandum of understanding between the State of Georgia and the United States Department of Justice or Department of Homeland Security concerning the enforcement of federal immigration and customs laws, detention and removals, and investigations in the State of Georgia.
(c) The memorandum of understanding negotiated pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall be signed on behalf of the state by the commissioner and the Governor or as otherwise required by the appropriate federal agency.
(d) The commissioner shall annually designate no fewer than ten peace officers to apply to be trained pursuant to the memorandum of understanding provided for in subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section. Such training shall be funded pursuant to any federal Homeland Security Appropriation Act or any subsequent source of federal funding. The provisions of this subsection shall become effective upon such funding.
(e) A peace officer certified as trained in accordance with the memorandum of understanding as provided in this Code section is authorized to enforce federal immigration and customs laws while performing within the scope of his or her authorized duties.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 252,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2011.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 457,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2007.
