# § 35-2-49. Provision of uniforms and equipment to sworn members of the Department of Public Safety and radio operators; retention of weapons and badges upon retirement

The commissioner shall, within the limit of the appropriation, provide the sworn members of the Department of Public Safety with proper uniforms, suitable to the season, and also with emergency and first-aid outfits, weapons, motor vehicles with radio equipment, and all other necessary supplies and equipment for the purpose of carrying out this article, the same to remain the property of the state; provided, however, that after a sworn member has accumulated 15 years of service with the Department of Public Safety, including prior service with the Department of Driver Services (formerly known as the Department of Motor Vehicle Safety), Public Service Commission, Department of Transportation, or Georgia Building Authority, upon leaving the department under honorable conditions, or upon leaving the department as a result of a disability arising in the line of duty regardless of the number of years of service, such member shall be entitled, as part of his or her compensation, to retain his or her weapon and badge pursuant to regulations promulgated by the commissioner. The commissioner shall also, within the limit of the appropriation, provide proper uniforms and equipment to radio operators. After a radio operator has accumulated 15 years of service with the department, including prior service with the Department of Driver Services (formerly known as the Department of Motor Vehicle Safety), Public Service Commission, Department of Transportation, or Georgia Building Authority, upon leaving the department under honorable conditions, such radio operator shall be entitled, as part of his or her compensation, to retain his or her badge pursuant to regulations promulgated by the commissioner.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 35, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 936,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2006.
