# § 35-2-1. Creation of Board of Public Safety; composition; appointment and terms of office of members

(a) There is created a Board of Public Safety which shall establish the general policy to be followed by the Department of Public Safety.
(b) The board shall consist of 16 members:
  (1) The following four members serve as follows:
    (A) The Governor, ex officio, who shall be chairperson of the board;
    (B) An appointee of the Governor who shall not be the Attorney General;
    (C) The official in charge of the Department of Corrections, ex officio; and
    (D) The commissioner of community supervision, ex officio.
  (2) Five members shall be selected as follows:
    (A) A representative appointed by the Governor by and with the advice and consent of the Senate from the membership of the Georgia Sheriffs Association; the first representative shall serve an initial term ending on January 20, 1975, each subsequent term being three years;
    (B) A representative appointed by the Governor by and with the advice and consent of the Senate from the membership of the Georgia Association of Chiefs of Police; the first representative shall serve an initial term ending on January 20, 1974, each subsequent term being three years;
    (C) A representative appointed by the Governor by and with the advice and consent of the Senate from the membership of the District Attorneys Association of Georgia; the first representative shall serve an initial term ending on January 20, 1973, each subsequent term being three years;
    (D) A representative appointed by the Governor by and with the advice and consent of the Senate from the membership of the Georgia State Firemen's Association; the first representative shall serve an initial term ending on January 20, 1984, each subsequent term being for three years; and
    (E) A representative appointed by the Governor by and with the advice and consent of the Senate from the membership of the Georgia Association of Fire Chiefs; the first representative shall serve an initial term beginning on January 21, 2011, each term being for three years.
  (3) Four members shall be selected as follows:
    (A) Two members appointed by the Governor. The first appointees shall serve an initial term ending on January 20, 2002. Each subsequent term shall be for three years;
    (B) One member appointed by the Lieutenant Governor. The first appointee shall serve an initial term ending on January 20, 2002. Each subsequent term shall be for three years; and
    (C) One member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives. The first appointee shall serve an initial term ending on January 20, 2002. Each subsequent term shall be for three years.
  (4) By majority vote the board shall appoint three members from the state at large; no person so appointed shall be an officer or employee of any state or local governmental entity at the time of his or her appointment to or during his or her membership on the board. All terms of the three at-large members shall be four years. Any vacancy in the at-large membership shall be filled by the board for the unexpired term.
(c) Appointments made pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section at times when the Senate is not in session shall be effective ad interim.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 383,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 35, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 178,§ 1, eff. 1/20/2011.
