# § 35-2-36.1. Auxiliary Service of the Uniform Division; appointment of members; salary; authority and powers; equipment; eligibility

(a) There is created within the Uniform Division, a special service known as the Auxiliary Service. The members of the Auxiliary Service of the Uniform Division shall be appointed by the commissioner on a part-time basis and shall serve at the pleasure of the commissioner. The members shall have such rank as assigned by the commissioner. The members of the Auxiliary Service shall be paid on an hourly basis and, with the exception of workers' compensation medical coverage and any benefits mandated by federal law, shall not be entitled to any employee benefits based on their employment in the Auxiliary Service.
(b) Members of the Auxiliary Service shall have the same authority and powers as other members of the Uniform Division.
(c) The commissioner is authorized to furnish the members of the Auxiliary Service with such equipment, uniforms, and badges as the commissioner deems necessary for the duties of such members.
(d) No person shall be eligible for appointment in the Auxiliary Service unless that person has, prior to such appointment, successfully completed trooper school, served in the Uniform Division, and voluntarily left the Uniform Division in good standing through retirement, resignation, or otherwise. Persons appointed to the Auxiliary Service must complete the annual training required under Code Section 35-8-21 for certified law enforcement officers, provided that such persons may serve up to six months without having such training. The Department of Public Safety is authorized to provide or to pay for such training in the same fashion that it provides or pays for such training for members of the Uniform Division.
