# § 47-5-21. Membership of board

(a) The board of trustees shall consist of 15 members. To be eligible for membership on the board of trustees, a person must be a citizen of this state. Members of the board of trustees shall be eligible to succeed themselves but shall not serve more than three consecutive full terms.
(b) Except for the term of the initial board, trustees shall be employees or elected or appointed officers of a member employer. Ten trustees shall be elected officers of a municipal corporation. Five trustees shall be employees or appointed officers of a municipal corporation. The initial trustees whose terms shall begin upon appointment and end as follows shall be:
  (1) Mayor Hobby Stripling of Vienna, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1985;
  (2) Mayor Ernest Whaley of Clarkston, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1985;
  (3) Mayor Tracy Stallings of Carrollton, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1985;
  (4) Mayor Willis Wombles of Wrightsville, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1985;
  (5) City Administrator Robert Schwartz, Garden City, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1985;
  (6) Councilman Clyde Kinnett of East Point, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1986;
  (7) Mayor Cecil Evans of Tifton, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1986;
  (8) Mayor J. I. Youngblood of Ashburn, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1986;
  (9) City Manager Wilbur Avera of Thomaston, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1986;
  (10) City Manager James Calvin of Toccoa, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1986;
  (11) Mayor J. C. Woods of Trion, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1987;
  (12) Mayor Robert Knox, Jr., of Thomson, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1987;
  (13) Mayor Lillian Webb of Norcross, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1987;
  (14) City Clerk Thomas McMinn of Warner Robins, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1987; and
  (15) City Manager Alex Howell of Fairburn, Georgia, for a term ending June 30, 1987.
(c) As the initial terms for which appointments have been made expire, future such members shall be chosen in accordance with the bylaws of the board of trustees. Upon the expiration of the initial terms of the trustees as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, should any of the trustees cease to be an employee or an elected or appointed officer of a municipal corporation, the trustee shall no longer be eligible to serve on the board of trustees, and the position shall be deemed to be vacant. Vacancies shall be filled as provided in the bylaws of the board of trustees.
