# § 47-5-30. Periodic audit of the accounts of the board of trustees; contents and availability of report of such audit; standard of care in conduct of the audit and liability of auditors

(a) At least once every 12 months an audit shall be made of the retirement fund, workers' compensation fund, employee benefit fund, and other funds by independent certified public accountants responsible only to and appointed by the board of trustees. The compensation and reasonable expenses of any independent public accountants may be charged to the funds and apportioned between the principal and income as the board of trustees may deem proper.
(b) The auditors appointed shall audit the accounts of the board of trustees and shall make a report of such audit, which report shall include a list of the investments and other assets comprising the various funds on the last day of the period covered by such audit and shall show the valuation placed on each such investment and asset as of that date. The report shall also include a statement of charges, sales, and any other investment charges, and of all income and disbursements since the last audit, and appropriate comments as to any investment in default as to principal or interest. Promptly upon receipt by the board of trustees of such report, the board of trustees shall send notice to each employer to which a regular periodic accounting would ordinarily be rendered that the report is available and that a copy will be furnished upon request. Such audits shall be included with the annual written report filed with each member employer pursuant to Code Section 47-5-26.
(c) In auditing the accounts of the board of trustees, the auditors shall be required to make only such examination of the accounts and records as they deem reasonably necessary. The auditors shall incur no liability for any act done or suffered by them in good faith in the exercise of reasonable care.
(d) The auditors shall include in their report their unqualified opinion on the presentation of the financial position and operations of the fund. If such auditors are unable to express an unqualified opinion, they shall so state and shall further detail reasons for their qualification or disclaimer, including recommendations for improvements.
