# § 33-65-3. Corporate governance annual disclosures; requirements; cross-referencing data

(a) An insurer, or the insurance group of which the insurer is a member, shall, no later than June 1 of each calendar year, submit to the Commissioner a corporate governance annual disclosure that contains the information described in subsection (b) of Code Section 33-65-5. Notwithstanding any request from the Commissioner made pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section, if the insurer is a member of an insurance group, the insurer shall submit the report required by this subsection to the Commissioner of the lead state for the insurance group, in accordance with the laws of the lead state, as determined by the procedures outlined in the most recent Financial Analysis Handbook adopted by the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.
(b) The corporate governance annual disclosure must include a signature of the insurer or insurance group's chief executive officer or corporate secretary attesting to the best of that individual's belief and knowledge that the insurer has implemented the corporate governance practices and that a copy of the disclosure has been provided to the insurer's board of directors or the appropriate committee thereof.
(c) An insurer not required to submit a corporate governance annual disclosure under this Code section shall do so upon the Commissioner's request.
(d) For purposes of completing the corporate governance annual disclosure, the insurer or insurance group may provide information regarding corporate governance at the ultimate controlling parent level, an intermediate holding company level, or the individual legal entity level, depending upon how the insurer or insurance group has structured its system of corporate governance. The insurer or insurance group is encouraged to make the disclosures at the level at which the insurer's or insurance group's risk appetite is determined, or at which the earnings, capital, liquidity, operations, and reputation of the insurer are overseen collectively and at which the supervision of those factors is coordinated and exercised, or the level at which legal liability for failure of general corporate governance duties would be placed. If the insurer or insurance group determines the level of reporting based on these criteria, it shall indicate which of the three criteria was used to determine the level of reporting and explain any subsequent changes in level of reporting.
(e) The review of the corporate governance annual disclosure and any additional requests for information shall be made through the lead state as determined by the procedures within the most recent Financial Analysis Handbook referenced in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(f) Insurers providing information substantially similar to the information required by this chapter in other documents provided to the Commissioner, including proxy statements filed in conjunction with Form B requirements, or other state or federal filings provided to the department shall not be required to duplicate that information in the corporate governance annual disclosure, but shall only be required to cross-reference the document in which the information is included.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 315,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2020.
