# § 48-4-104. Size of board; membership; governance

(a) The initial size of a board shall be determined in accordance with paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 48-4-103. Unless restricted by the actions or agreements specified in Code Section 48-4-103, and subject to the limits stated in this Code section, the size of the board may be adjusted in accordance with the bylaws of the land bank.
(b) In the event the board of a land bank created by a county and a municipal corporation or by a consolidated government before July 1, 2012, votes to continue in existence under the provisions of this article, the land bank members shall jointly nominate and approve at least one additional board member so that there is an odd number of board members. In the event the land bank members of such a preexisting land bank are unable to approve such additional board members, such preexisting land bank shall not exist under the provisions of this article unless and until a new intergovernmental contract is approved in accordance with this article.
(c) Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, an elected member of the municipal governing authority shall be eligible to serve as a board member, and the acceptance of the appointment shall neither terminate nor impair that public office. Any municipal employee shall be eligible to serve as a board member. Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, an elected member of the county governing authority shall be eligible to serve as a board member, and the acceptance of the appointment shall neither terminate nor impair that public office. Any county employee shall be eligible to serve as a board member. Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, an elected member of a consolidated government governing authority shall be eligible to serve as a board member, and the acceptance of the appointment shall neither terminate nor impair that public office. Any consolidated government employee shall be eligible to serve as a board member. A tax commissioner or tax collector, or both, may serve ex officio as a member of the land bank board if so authorized by the intergovernmental contract, local law, ordinance, or resolution that creates the land bank or by subsequent intergovernmental contracts with the land bank members.
(d) The members of the board shall select annually from among themselves a chairperson, vice chairperson, secretary, treasurer, and such other officers as the board may determine and shall establish their duties as may be regulated by the intergovernmental contract or by rules adopted by the board. When in actual conflict the intergovernmental contract shall control over the bylaws or rules adopted by the board.
(e)
  (1) The board shall establish rules and regulations relative to the attendance and participation of board members in its regular and special meetings. The rules and regulations may prescribe a procedure whereby a board member who fails to comply with the rules and regulations of the board may be removed from office by no less than a majority vote of the remaining members of the board, and that board member's position shall be vacant as of the first day of the next calendar month.
  (2) A land bank member may remove any board member appointed by that land bank member.
  (3) Any board member removed under the provisions of this subsection shall be ineligible for reappointment to the board, unless the reappointment is confirmed by at least a two-thirds' vote of the governing authority of the appointing land bank member.
(f) A vacancy on the board shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment.
(g) Board members shall serve without compensation. The board may reimburse a board member for expenses actually incurred in the performance of duties on behalf of the land bank.
(h) The board shall meet in regular session according to a schedule adopted by the board and also shall meet in special session as convened by the chairperson or upon written notice signed by a majority of the board members.
(i) A quorum of board membership shall be a simple majority of the entire board membership, and no action of the board shall be taken in the absence of a quorum. All actions of the board must be approved by the affirmative vote of a majority of the members of the board present and voting; provided, however, that no action of the board shall be authorized on the following matters unless approved by a majority of the entire board membership:
  (1) Adoption of bylaws and other rules and regulations for conduct of the land bank's business;
  (2) Hiring or firing of any employee or contractor of the land bank. Such function may by majority vote be delegated by the board to a specified officer or committee of the land bank under such terms and conditions and to the extent that the board may specify;
  (3) Incurring of debt;
  (4) Adoption or amendment of the annual budget; and
  (5) Sale, lease, encumbrance, or alienation of real property, improvements, or personal property with a value of more than $50,000.00.
(j) A land bank created pursuant to Article 4 of this chapter may continue in existence in accordance with provisions of this article upon the unanimous consent of the board members, and contingent upon the appointment of at least one additional board member pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section.
(k) A board member shall not be liable personally on obligations of the land bank, and the rights of creditors of a land bank shall be solely against the land bank.
(l) A board member shall be prohibited from voting by proxy. A board member may request a recorded vote on any resolution or action of the land bank.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 48, eff. 5/9/2017.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 729,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
