# § 48-4-44. Quitclaim deed by purchaser

(a) In all cases where property is redeemed, the purchaser at the tax sale shall make a quitclaim deed to the defendant in fi. fa., which deed shall recite:
  (1) The name of the person who has paid the redemption money; and
  (2) The capacity in which or the claim of right or interest pursuant to which the redemption money was paid.
(b) The recitals required by subsection (a) of this Code section shall be prima-facie evidence of the facts stated.
(c) If the quitclaim deed provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section is presented to the purchaser at the time such person accepts the amount payable for the redemption in the form of cash or a certified check, the purchaser shall, at that time, sign the quitclaim deed if a notary public and an unofficial witness are present to witness such signature.
(d) If no quitclaim deed is presented at the time of the redemption or if sufficient witnesses are not present, it shall be the responsibility of the purchaser to prepare and properly execute such quitclaim deed as is required by law within seven days from the date of the redemption.
(e) It shall be the responsibility of the purchaser once the quitclaim deed is properly executed as required in subsection (d) of this Code section to present such deed for recordation to the clerk of the court within ten days of the redemption. The quitclaim deed shall be presented for recordation in the county where the tax sale originally occurred. The purchaser shall pay all recording costs and return the recorded quitclaim deed to the redeemer.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 759,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2006.
