# § 48-4-111. Public meetings; conflicts of interest; dissolution

(a) All meetings shall be open to the public, except as otherwise provided by Chapter 14 of Title 50, and a written record shall be maintained of all meetings. All records of a land bank shall be subject to Article 4 of Chapter 18 of Title 50, relating to open records.
(b) No board member or employee of a land bank shall acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in real property owned or to be acquired by the land bank, nor shall any board member assist any third party in negotiating against the land bank for property identified by the land bank for acquisition by the land bank. No board member or employee of a land bank shall have any interest, direct or indirect, in any contract or proposed contract for materials or services to be furnished or used by a land bank. The board may adopt supplemental rules and regulations addressing potential conflicts of interest and ethical guidelines for board members and land bank employees.
(c)
  (1) A land bank may be dissolved as a public body corporate and politic 60 calendar days after an affirmative resolution approved by two-thirds of the membership of the board.
  (2) Sixty calendar days' advance written notice of consideration of a resolution of dissolution shall be given to the governing authorities of the land bank members, shall be published in a local newspaper of general circulation.
  (3) Upon dissolution of the land bank, all real property, personal property, and other assets of the land bank shall become the assets of the municipal corporation, county, or consolidated government in which the property is located, unless provided otherwise in any applicable intergovernmental contracts.
  (4) Land banks created pursuant to paragraphs (2) through (4) of subsection (b) of Code Section 48-4-103 shall not automatically dissolve upon the withdrawal of one or more land bank members unless the intergovernmental contract so provides, except that no municipal corporation may maintain the existence of a land bank if the county in which the municipal corporation is located withdraws from the land bank, and no county may maintain the existence of a land bank if the single municipal corporation that is both located within that county and is a member of the land bank withdraws from the land bank.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 729,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
