# § 48-4-109. Acquired property in land bank name; public review and inspection of inventory; property transaction requirements; hierarchy of uses

(a) A land bank shall hold in its own name all real property acquired by the land bank without regard to the identity of the transferor of the property.
(b) A land bank shall maintain and make available for public review and inspection an inventory of all real property held by the land bank.
(c) A land bank may convey, exchange, sell, transfer, lease as lessor, grant, and mortgage as mortgagor any and all interests in, upon, or to real property of the land bank in some form and by such method as determined by the board to be in the best interest of the land bank.
(d)
  (1) A land bank shall determine the terms, conditions, form, and substance of consideration necessary to convey, exchange, sell, transfer, lease as lessor, grant, and mortgage as mortgagor any interests in, upon, or to real property.
  (2) Consideration may take the form of monetary payments and secured financial obligations, covenants, and conditions related to the present and future use of the property, contractual commitments of the transferee, and such other forms of consideration as determined by the board to be in the best interest of the land bank.
(e)
  (1) The board shall determine and state in the land bank policies and procedures the general terms and conditions for consideration to be received by the land bank for the transfer of real property and interests in real property.
  (2) The disposition of property by the land bank shall not be governed or controlled by any regulations or laws of the participating land bank members unless specifically provided in the applicable intergovernmental contract.
(f) Land bank members may, in the resolution or intergovernmental contract creating a land bank, establish a hierarchical ranking of priorities for the use of real property conveyed by a land bank, or, if the resolution or intergovernmental contract creating the land bank is silent, the board of directors may establish a hierarchical ranking of priorities for the use of real property conveyed by a land bank, including but not limited to:
  (1) Use for purely public spaces and places;
  (2) Use for affordable housing;
  (3) Use for retail, commercial, and industrial activities;
  (4) Use as conservation areas;
  (5) Use for land trusts or for other public entities; and
  (6) Such other uses and in such hierarchical order as determined by the board of directors of the land bank.
(g)
  (1) Subject to the requirements of paragraph (5) of subsection (i) of Code Section 48-4-104, a county, municipal corporation, or consolidated government may, in the applicable intergovernmental contract or in the resolution creating a land bank, require that any particular form of disposition of real property, or any disposition of real property located within specified jurisdictions, be subject to specified voting and approval requirements of the board.
  (2) Except and unless restricted or constrained as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the board may delegate to officers and employees the authority to enter into and execute agreements, instruments of conveyance, and all other related documents pertaining to the conveyance of real property by the land bank.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 729,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
