# § 48-4-110. Funding through grants and loans; receipt of payments for various activities; remission of real property tax; allocation of proceeds from sale of property

(a) A land bank may receive funding through grants and loans from the land bank members, from any other municipal corporations, counties, or consolidated governments in the state, from the General Assembly, from the federal government, and from other public and private sources.
(b) A land bank may receive and retain payments for services rendered, for rents and leasehold payments received, for consideration for disposition of real and personal property, for proceeds of insurance coverage for losses incurred, for income from investments, and for any other asset and activity lawfully permitted to a land bank under this article.
(c) Up to 75 percent of the real property taxes collected on real property, exclusive of any state or school district ad valorem tax, conveyed by a land bank pursuant to the laws of this state shall be remitted to the land bank. The specific percentage of such taxes to be remitted, as to each land bank member, shall be set forth in the local law, ordinance, or resolution or in the intergovernmental contract of the land bank. Such allocation of property tax revenues shall commence with the first taxable year following the date of conveyance and shall continue for a period of five years. Such funds shall be remitted to the land bank in accordance with the administrative procedures established by the tax commissioner or tax collector of the county or counties in which the land bank is located. Such allocation of property tax revenues shall not occur if such taxes have been previously allocated to a tax allocation district, or to secure a debt of the municipal corporation or consolidated government, unless the tax allocation district, municipal corporation, county, or consolidated government enters into an agreement with the land bank for the remittance of such funds to the land bank.
(d) At the time that the land bank sells or otherwise disposes of property as part of its land bank program, the proceeds from the sale, if any, shall be allocated as determined by the land bank among the following priorities:
  (1) Furtherance of land bank operations;
  (2) Recovery of land bank expenses; and
  (3) Remitter to the tax commissioner or tax collector for distribution to the appropriate taxing entity in proportion to and to the extent of their respective tax bills and costs. Any excess proceeds shall be distributed pursuant to any applicable intergovernmental contract or land bank rules, regulations, or bylaws in accordance with the public policy stated in this article.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 729,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
