# § 48-4-108. Exemption of land bank property from state and local taxation; acquisition of real property interests; geographical restriction

(a) The real property of a land bank and its income and operations are exempt from all taxation by the state and by any of its political subdivisions, including, but not limited to, real property held by a land bank as lessor pursuant to long-term lease contracts with community land trusts.
(b) A land bank may acquire real property or interests in real property by gift, devise, transfer, exchange, foreclosure, purchase, or otherwise on terms and conditions and in a manner the board considers is in the best interest of the land bank.
(c)
  (1) A land bank may acquire real property by purchase contracts, lease-purchase agreements, and may accept transfers from municipal corporations, counties, or consolidated governments upon such terms and conditions as agreed to by the land bank and the municipal corporation, county, or consolidated government.
  (2) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, a municipal corporation, county, or consolidated government may transfer to a land bank real property and interests in real property of the municipal corporation, county, or consolidated government on such terms and conditions and according to such procedures as determined by the municipal corporation, county, or consolidated government, so long as the real property is located within the geographical boundaries of the land bank.
  (3) The acquisition of property by the land bank shall not be governed or controlled by any regulations or laws relating to procurement or acquisition of property of the counties, consolidated governments, or municipal corporations that are members of the land bank unless specifically provided in the applicable intergovernmental contract or resolution, and transfers of property by municipal corporations, counties, or consolidated governments to the land bank shall be treated as transfers to a body politic as contemplated by subparagraph (a)(2)(A) of Code Section 36-9-3.
(d) A land bank shall maintain all of its real property in accordance with the laws and ordinances of the jurisdiction in which the real property is located.
(e)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a land bank shall not own or hold real property located outside the geographical boundaries of the land bank members.
  (2) A land bank may be granted pursuant to an intergovernmental contract with a county, consolidated government, or municipal corporation the authority to manage and maintain real property located within the geographical boundaries of such county, consolidated government, or municipal corporation, but outside the geographical boundaries of the land bank members.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 729,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
