# § 48-4-63. Administration of properties

(a) The authority shall hold in its own name, for the benefit of the parties, all properties conveyed to it by the parties, all tax delinquent properties acquired by it pursuant to this article, and all properties otherwise acquired.
(b) It shall be the duty of the authority to administer the properties acquired by it as follows:
  (1) All property acquired by the authority shall be inventoried and appraised, and the inventory shall be maintained as a public record;
  (2) The authority shall organize and classify the property on the basis of suitability for use;
  (3) The authority shall maintain all property held by it in accordance with applicable laws and codes; and
  (4) The authority shall have the power to manage, maintain, protect, rent, lease, repair, insure, alter, sell, trade, exchange, or otherwise dispose of any property on terms and conditions determined in the sole discretion of the authority. The authority may assemble tracts or parcels of property for public parks or other public purposes and to that end may exchange parcels and otherwise effectuate the purposes determined by agreement with any party.
(c) The acquisition and disposal of property by the authority shall not be governed or controlled by any regulations or laws of the parties unless specifically provided in the agreement, and transfers of property by parties to the authority shall be treated as transfers to a body politic as contemplated by subparagraph (a)(3)(A) of Code Section 36-9-3.
(d) Property held by the authority may be sold, traded, exchanged, or otherwise disposed of by the authority so long as the disposition is approved by a majority of the membership, as required in subsection (b) of Code Section 48-4-62 for any action by the authority, and approved as follows:
  (1) If the property is located within a party city and the party county, approved by both authority members appointed by the mayor of such city and one of the authority members appointed by the county commission;
  (2) If the property is located within the county party but outside all the party cities, approved by both authority members appointed by the county commission;
  (3) If the property is located within a party city but outside the party county, approved by both authority members of such city; or
  (4) If the property is located within the boundaries of a consolidated government, approved by a majority of the authority members.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 48, eff. 6/3/2010.
