# § 48-4-62. Board to govern authority; members; meetings; organization; staff

(a) The authority shall be governed by a board composed in such a manner as to provide two members to represent each party: two appointed by the mayor of each party city and two appointed by the county commission of the party county. An authority established by resolution of a consolidated government shall be governed by a board composed of four members to be appointed by the governing authority of the consolidated government. Each member shall serve at the pleasure of the respective appointing authority for a term of four years and shall serve without compensation. The members shall be residents of the county and may be employees of the parties. Any vacancy shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment.
(b) The board of the authority shall meet from time to time as required, and the presence of either (1) three members, if there are only two parties to the agreement or if the authority was created by a consolidated government or (2) 50 percent of the members then in office, if there are more than two parties to the agreement, shall constitute a quorum. Approval by a majority of the membership then in office shall be necessary for any action to be taken by the authority. All meetings shall be open to the public, except as otherwise provided by Chapter 14 of Title 50, and a written record shall be maintained of all meetings. A chairperson shall be elected from among the members, and he or she shall execute all deeds, leases, and contracts of the authority when authorized by the board.
(c) The authority may employ its own staff or may utilize employees of the parties, as determined by the agreement.
