# § 48-4-42. Amount payable for redemption; additional costs

(a) The amount required to be paid for redemption of property from any sale for taxes as provided in this chapter shall with respect to any sale made after July 1, 2002, be the amount paid for the property at the tax sale, as shown by the recitals in the tax deed, plus:
  (1) Any taxes paid on the property by the purchaser after the sale for taxes;
  (2) Any special assessments on the property; and
  (3) A premium of 20 percent of the amount for the first year or fraction of a year which has elapsed between the date of the sale and the date on which the redemption payment is made and 10 percent for each year or fraction of a year thereafter.
(b) If redemption is not made until more than 30 days after the notice provided for in Code Section 48-4-45 has been given, there shall be added to the sums set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section the sheriff's cost in connection with serving the notice and the cost of publication of the notice, if any.
(c) With respect to any sale made after July 1, 2016, there shall be added to the sums set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section any sums:
  (1) Paid from the date of the tax sale to the date of redemption to a property owners' association, as defined in Code Section 44-3-221, in accordance with Code Section 44-3-232;
  (2) Paid to a condominium association, that is an association, as defined in Code Section 44-3-71, in accordance with Code Section 44-3-109; or
  (3) Paid to a homeowners' association established by covenants restricting land to certain uses related to planned residential subdivisions.
(d) All of the amounts required to be paid by this Code section shall be paid in lawful money of the United States to the purchaser at the tax sale or to the purchaser's successors.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 600,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 571,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 993, § 4, eff. 5/21/2002.
