# § 31-38-8. Written report of injury requirement; use of equipment by minors restricted; equipment maintenance requirements; restriction on promoting and advertising certain health-related claims

(a) The tanning facility owner or operator shall compile a written report of actual or alleged injury from use of tanning equipment within five working days after occurrence or notice thereof. Such report shall be maintained for a period of not less than three years and shall be available for inspection and copying by any consumer. The report shall include:
  (1) The name of the affected individual;
  (2) The name and location of the tanning facility and identification of the specific tanning equipment involved;
  (3) The nature of the actual or alleged injury; and
  (4) Any other information relevant to the actual or alleged injury to include the date and duration of exposure.
(b) The tanning facility owner or operator shall not allow minors under 14 years of age to use tanning equipment. The tanning facility owner or operator shall not allow minors 14 years of age or over but under 18 years of age to use tanning equipment unless the minor's parent or legal guardian signs a written consent form meeting the requirements of this Code section. Such consent form shall be signed by the parent or legal guardian at the tanning facility before the minor may use the equipment or facility.
(c) The tanning facility owner or operator shall replace defective or burned out lamps, bulbs, or filters with a type intended for use in the affected tanning equipment as specified on the product label and having the same spectral distribution.
(d) The tanning facility owner or operator shall replace ultraviolet lamps and bulbs, which are not otherwise defective or damaged, at such frequency or after such duration of use as may be recommended by the manufacturer of such lamps and bulbs.
(e) A tanning facility shall not advertise or distribute promotional materials that claim that using a tanning device is safe or free from risk or that the use of a tanning device will result in medical or health benefits. Violation of the provisions of this subsection shall constitute an unfair or deceptive act pursuant to the terms of Part 2 of Article 15 of Chapter 1 of Title 10, the "Fair Business Practices Act of 1975."

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 491,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2010.
