# § 40-14-24. Reports on traffic-control signal monitoring device use

(a) Each governing authority using any traffic-control signal monitoring device shall submit not later than February 1 of each year a report on such use during the preceding calendar year to the Department of Transportation. Such report shall include, without limitation:
  (1) A description of the locations where traffic-control signal monitoring devices were used;
  (2) The number of violations recorded at each location and in the aggregate on a monthly basis;
  (3) The total number of citations issued;
  (4) The number of civil monetary penalties and total amount of such penalties paid after citation without contest;
  (5) The number of violations adjudicated and results of such adjudications, including a breakdown of dispositions made;
  (6) The total amount of civil monetary penalties paid; and
  (7) The quality of the adjudication process and its results.
(b) If any governing authority fails to provide the report provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section all revenues generated from the operation of any traffic-control signal monitoring device from the date the report was due shall be forwarded to the general fund of the state. The governing authority shall not be entitled to retain any revenue until the annual report is filed and accepted by the Department of Transportation.
(c) The Department of Transportation shall forward copies of all reports to the offices of the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and the Speaker of the House by March 1 of each year. The department shall also forward to the offices of the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, and the Speaker of the House a complete list of all traffic-control signal monitoring devices currently in use.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 799,§ 7, eff. 12/31/2008.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 246, § 4, eff. 7/1/2003.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 223.
