# § 40-14-3. Application for permit; use of device while application pending

(a) A county sheriff, county or municipal governing authority, or the president of a college or university may apply to the Department of Public Safety for a permit to authorize the use of speed detection devices for purposes of traffic control within such counties, municipalities, colleges, or universities on streets, roads, and highways, provided that such application shall name the street or road on which the device is to be used and the speed limits on such street or road shall have been approved by the Office of Traffic Operations of the Department of Transportation. Law enforcement agencies are authorized to use speed detection devices on streets and roads for which an application is pending as long as all other requirements for the use of speed detection devices are met. Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to affect the provisions of Code Section 40-14-9.
(b) The Department of Public Safety is authorized to prescribe by appropriate rules and regulations the manner and procedure in which applications shall be made for such permits and to prescribe the required information to be submitted by the applicants. The Department of Public Safety may deny the application or suspend the speed detection device permit for failure to provide information or documentation at the department's request.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 40, eff. 5/13/2004.
2001 Ga. Laws 223, § 4, redesignated Title 40, Chapter 14, §§ 40-14-2 through 40-14-17 as Title 40, Chapter 14, Article 2, §§ 40-14-2 through 40-14-17. .
