# § 40-14-21. Traffic-control signal monitoring devices; application and permit for operation; collection and use of civil monetary penalty; inspection of devices

(a) A governing authority must obtain an operating permit from the Department of Transportation prior to using any traffic-control signal monitoring device. The governing authority shall not use traffic-control signal monitoring devices unless the chief law enforcement officer of such governing authority desires the use of such devices and such use is approved by a properly adopted resolution of the governing authority.
(b) The governing authority shall also conduct a public hearing on the proposed use of such devices prior to entering any contract on or after July 1, 2001, for the use or purchase of such devices.
(c) The Department of Transportation is authorized to prescribe by appropriate rules and regulations the manner and procedure in which applications shall be made for traffic-control signal monitoring device permits and to prescribe the required information to be submitted by an applicant consistent with the requirements of this title. The Department of Transportation may deny an application or suspend or revoke a permit for failure of the governing authority to provide requested information or documentation or for any other violation of this article or violation of the rules and regulations of the department.
(d) An application for the operation of a traffic-control signal monitoring device by a governing authority shall name the intersection at which the device is to be used and provide demonstrable evidence that there is a genuine safety need for the use of such device at the designated intersection. The documented safety need for each designated intersection shall be approved by the Department of Transportation in accordance with nationally recognized safety standards. For each designated intersection, the governing authority shall conduct a traffic engineering study to determine whether, in addition to or as an alternative to the traffic-control signal monitoring device, there are other possible design or operational changes likely to reduce the number of accidents or red light violations at that intersection. This report shall be submitted with the application for an operation permit required under these provisions and any request to amend the operation permit to include an additional intersection.
(e) The revenue generated by the use of a traffic-control signal monitoring device shall not be considered when determining whether to issue a permit for the operation of such devices at a designated intersection. The only consideration shall be the increased life-saving safety value by the use of such a device at the designated intersection.
(f) Permits shall be issued by the Department of Transportation within three months of receiving a completed permit application from a governing authority where such governing authority is otherwise in compliance with the provisions of this article. An application for amendment to an existing permit and an application for a renewal permit following a suspension or revocation of a permit shall also be processed within three months of receipt of such application, provided that the application is complete and complies with the provisions of this article. A permit shall authorize use of a traffic-control signal monitoring device for only those designated intersections approved as having a documented life-saving safety need by the Department of Transportation.
(g) No governing authority shall be authorized to use traffic-control signal monitoring devices where any arresting officer or official of the court having jurisdiction of traffic cases is paid on a fee system. This subsection shall not apply to any official receiving a recording fee.
(h) If a governing authority elects to use traffic-control signal monitoring devices, no portion of any civil monetary penalty collected through the use of such devices may be paid to the manufacturer or vendor of the traffic-control signal monitoring devices. The compensation paid by the governing authority for such devices shall be based on the value of such equipment and shall not be based on the number of citations issued or the revenue generated by such devices.
(i) Charges for violations based on evidence obtained from a traffic-control signal monitoring device shall not be made by a law enforcement agency unless the law enforcement agency employs at least one full-time certified peace officer.
(j) A traffic-control signal monitoring device shall not be used to produce any photograph, microphotograph, electronic image, or videotape showing the identity of any person in a motor vehicle.
(k) A governing authority utilizing traffic-control signal monitoring devices shall at all times cooperate fully with the Department of Transportation. The department is authorized, at any time, to inspect traffic-control signal monitoring devices used by a governing authority and any records pertaining to revenues collected from the use of such devices.
(l) A permit may be amended at any time by amended application submitted by a governing authority. The request to amend an application and to add a new intersection to the list of authorized intersections for the operation of a traffic-control signal monitoring device shall be considered by the department in the same manner as original permit applications.
(m) A permit shall be reviewed by the Department of Transportation once every three years from the date of issuance or date of the most recent extension unless the permit has been revoked or suspended by the department. The review shall be conducted in the same manner as the original permit application.
(n) The department is authorized to set reasonable application fees to compensate the department for necessary costs in issuing, amending, or reviewing a permit to operate traffic-control signal monitoring devices.
(o) Any governing authority operating a traffic-control signal monitoring device on December 31, 2008, shall have until January 1, 2010, to obtain a permit for the operation of such device as required by this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 799,§ 4, eff. 12/31/2008.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 530, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 246, § 3, eff. 7/1/2003.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 223§ 4, eff. 7/1/2001.
