# § 40-14-1.1. Definitions

(1) "Agent" means a person or entity who is authorized by a law enforcement agency or governing body to administer the procedures contained herein and:
  (A) Provides services to such law enforcement agency or governing body;
  (B) Operates, maintains, leases, or licenses an automated traffic enforcement safety device; or
  (C) Is authorized by such law enforcement agency or governing body to review and assemble the recorded images captured by the automated traffic enforcement safety device for review by a peace officer.
(2) "Automated traffic enforcement safety device" means a speed detection device that:
  (A) Is capable of producing photographically recorded still or video images, or both, of the rear of a motor vehicle or of the rear of a motor vehicle being towed by another vehicle, including an image of such vehicle's rear license plate;
  (B) Is capable of monitoring the speed of a vehicle as photographically recorded pursuant to subparagraph (A) of this paragraph; and
  (C) Indicates on each photographically recorded still or video image produced the date, time, location, and speed of a photographically recorded vehicle traveling at a speed above the posted speed limit within a marked school zone.
(3) "Owner" means the registrant of a motor vehicle, except that such term shall not include a motor vehicle rental company when a motor vehicle registered by such company is being operated by another person under a rental agreement with such company.
(4) "Recorded images" means still or video images recorded by an automated traffic enforcement safety device.
(5) "School zone" means the area within 1,000 feet of the boundary of any public or private elementary or secondary school.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 545,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2018.
