# § 40-14-2. Permit required for use; use not authorized where officers paid on fee system; operation by registered or certified peace officers

(a) The law enforcement officers of the various counties, municipalities, colleges, and universities may use speed detection devices only if the sheriffs of such counties, or the governing authorities of such counties, or the governing authorities of such municipalities, or the president of such college or university shall approve of and desire the use of such devices and shall apply to the Department of Public Safety for a permit to use such devices in accordance with this chapter.
(b) No county sheriff, county or municipal governing authority, college, or university shall be authorized to use speed detection devices where any arresting officer or official of the court having jurisdiction of traffic cases is paid on a fee system. This subsection shall not apply to any official receiving a recording fee.
(c) A permit shall not be issued by the Department of Public Safety to an applicant under this Code section unless the applicant provides law enforcement services by certified peace officers 24 hours a day, seven days a week on call or on duty or allows only peace officers employed full time by the applicant to operate speed detection devices. Speed detection devices can only be operated by registered or certified peace officers of the county sheriff, county, municipality, college, or university to which the permit is applicable; provided, however, that an automated traffic enforcement safety device may be operated by an agent or registered or certified peace officers of the county sheriff, county, or municipality to which the permit is applicable. Persons operating the speed detection devices must be registered or certified by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council as peace officers and certified by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and Training Council as operators of speed detection devices; provided, however, that agents may operate automated traffic enforcement safety devices without such registrations or certifications.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 545,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
2001 Ga. Laws 223, § 4, redesignated Title 40, Chapter 14, §§ 40-14-2 through 40-14-17 as Title 40, Chapter 14, Article 2, §§ 40-14-2 through 40-14-17. .
