# § 36-44-9. Computing tax allocation increments; property tax included; use of tax funds

(a) When a tax allocation district is created within the area of operation of a municipality by the local legislative body of such municipality, property taxes for computing tax allocation increments shall be based on all ad valorem property taxes levied by the municipality. If the municipality has an independent school system, ad valorem property taxes levied for educational purposes by the municipality shall be included in computing the tax allocation increments if the local legislative body of the municipality is empowered to make the determination of the municipal ad valorem tax millage rate for educational purposes. If the board of education of the independent school system is empowered to set the ad valorem tax millage rate for educational purposes and the local legislative body of the municipality does not have the authority to modify such rate set by the board of education, the tax allocation increment shall not be computed on the basis of municipal taxes for educational purposes unless the board of education of the independent school system consents, by resolution duly adopted by said board of education, to the inclusion of educational ad valorem property taxes as a basis for computing tax allocation increments.
(b) County ad valorem property taxes may be included in the computation of tax allocation increments of a municipal tax allocation district if the local legislative body of the county consents to such inclusion by resolution duly adopted by said local legislative body. For those municipalities which do not have an independent school system, ad valorem property taxes levied for county school district purposes may be included in the computation of tax allocation increments of a municipal tax allocation district if the county board of education or the local legislative body of the county, whichever is authorized to establish the ad valorem tax millage rate for educational purposes, consents to such inclusion by resolution duly adopted by said board of education or local legislative body, respectively.
(c) When a tax allocation district is created within the area of operation of a county by the local legislative body of the county, property taxes for computing tax allocation increments shall be based on all county ad valorem property taxes levied for county governmental purposes. Ad valorem property taxes levied for county school district purposes may be included in the computation of tax allocation increments for a county tax allocation district if the board of education of the county school district or the local legislative body of the county, whichever is authorized to establish the ad valorem tax millage rate for educational purposes, consents to such inclusion by resolution duly adopted by said board of education or local legislative body, respectively.
(d) When a tax allocation district is created within the area of operation of a consolidated government by the local legislative body of the consolidated government, property taxes for computing tax allocation increments shall be based on all consolidated government ad valorem property taxes levied for consolidated government purposes. Ad valorem property taxes levied for school district purposes within the boundaries of the consolidated government may be included in the computation of tax allocation increments for a consolidated government tax allocation district if the board of education of such school district or the local legislative body of the consolidated government, whichever is authorized to establish the ad valorem tax millage rate for educational purposes within the school district, consents to such inclusion by resolution duly adopted by said board of education or local legislative body, respectively.
(e) The resolution of any county, municipality, consolidated government, or board of education consenting to the inclusion of ad valorem property taxes in the computation of tax increments shall not specify the inclusion of any ad valorem property taxes not specified in the resolution creating the tax allocation district.
(f) A county may pledge all or part of county general funds derived from a municipal tax allocation district for payment or security of payment of tax allocation bonds issued by the municipality and for payment of other redevelopment costs of the tax allocation district if the local legislative body of the county consents to the use of such general funds by resolution duly adopted by said local legislative body.
(g) Any consent by a local board of education to the inclusion of educational ad valorem property taxes as a basis for computing tax allocation increments and any authorization to use such funds for such purposes that was approved before January 1, 2009, and not rescinded or repealed prior to April 22, 2009, is ratified and confirmed pursuant to the authority granted by Article IX, Section II, Paragraph VII of the Constitution, as amended by a resolution ratified at the November, 2008 general election, Ga. L. 2008, p. 777, to authorize the use of county, municipal, and school tax funds, or any combination thereof, for redevelopment purposes and programs notwithstanding Article VIII, Section VI or any other provision of the Constitution and regardless of whether any county, municipality, or local board of education approved the use of such tax funds for such purposes and programs before or after January 1, 2009.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 36, eff. 5/1/2012.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 4/22/2009.
