# § 36-44-7. Approval of redevelopment plans

(a) A redevelopment plan may be proposed by the redevelopment agency of a political subdivision, but such plan may not be implemented until it is approved by the adoption of a resolution of the local legislative body of the political subdivision as provided in this chapter.
(b) When a proposed redevelopment plan is prepared, it shall be submitted by the redevelopment agency to the local legislative body. Within the 60 day period after the plan is submitted, the local legislative body shall hold at least one public hearing on the proposed redevelopment plan. The local legislative body shall cause the time, date, place, and purpose of each such public hearing to be advertised in one or more newspapers of general circulation within the area of operation of the political subdivision at least once during a period of five days immediately preceding the date of each public hearing.
(c) Within 45 days after completing the public hearings required by subsection (b) of this Code section, the local legislative body of the political subdivision shall schedule and hold a meeting of the local legislative body for the purpose of considering the approval of the redevelopment plan. The local legislative body shall cause the date, time, place, and purpose of such meeting to be advertised in one or more newspapers of general circulation within the area of operation of the political subdivision at least once during a period of five days immediately preceding the date of such meeting. At such meeting the redevelopment plan shall be approved as submitted, amended and approved, or rejected and returned to the redevelopment agency for further consideration. Any redevelopment plan rejected by the local legislative body shall be returned to the redevelopment agency and shall be subject to the public hearing requirements of subsection (b) of this Code section if it is again submitted to the local legislative body for approval, either in the same or amended form.
(d) Once approved by the local legislative body, a redevelopment plan may be amended only by the local legislative body of the political subdivision. The local legislative body shall cause the date, time, place, and purpose of any meeting of the local legislative body at which an amendment to a redevelopment plan is to be considered to be advertised in the same manner as prescribed by subsection (c) of this Code section for a meeting to consider the adoption of a redevelopment plan.

## History

Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 4/22/2009.
