# § 36-44-11. Positive tax allocation increments

(a) Positive tax allocation increments of a tax allocation district shall be allocated to the political subdivision which created the district for each year from the effective date of the creation of the district until that time when all redevelopment costs and all tax allocation bonds of the district have been paid or provided for, subject to any agreement with bondholders. General funds derived from the tax allocation district which have been pledged for payment or security for payment of tax allocation bonds and other redevelopment costs of the tax allocation district shall also be allocated to the political subdivision which created the district for each year from the effective date of the creation of the district until that time when all redevelopment costs and all tax allocation bonds have been paid or provided for, subject to any agreement with bondholders.
(b)
  (1) Each county tax collector or tax commissioner, municipal official responsible for collecting municipal ad valorem property taxes, or consolidated government official responsible for collecting consolidated government ad valorem property taxes shall, on the dates provided by law for the payment of taxes collected to the respective political subdivisions, pay over to the appropriate fiscal officer of each political subdivision having created a tax allocation district, out of taxes collected on behalf of such political subdivision, including but not limited to taxes collected for a political subdivision or board of education consenting, pursuant to Code Section 36-44-9, to inclusion of its ad valorem property taxes in the computation of tax allocation increments for that tax allocation district, that portion, if any, which represents positive tax allocation increments payable to such political subdivision.
  (2) In addition, each county shall, upon receipt, pay over to the appropriate fiscal officer of each municipality having created a tax allocation district that portion, if any, of its general funds derived from the tax allocation district which have been pledged for payment or security for payment of tax allocation bonds and for payment of other redevelopment costs of the tax allocation district pursuant to Code Section 36-44-9.
(c) All positive tax allocation increments received for a tax allocation district shall be deposited into a special fund for the district upon receipt by the fiscal officer of the political subdivision. All general funds derived from the tax allocation district which have been pledged for payment or security for payment of tax allocation bonds and other redevelopment costs of the tax allocation district shall be deposited upon receipt into the special fund. Any lease or other contract payments made under the district's redevelopment plan shall also be deposited upon receipt into the special fund. Moneys derived from positive tax allocation increments, general fund moneys, and moneys derived from lease or other contract payments shall be accounted for separately within the special fund. Moneys shall be paid out of the fund only to pay redevelopment costs of the district or to satisfy claims of holders of tax allocation bonds issued for the district. The local legislative body shall irrevocably pledge all or a part of such special fund to the payment of the tax allocation bonds. The special fund or designated part thereof may thereafter be used only for the payment of the tax allocation bonds and interest until they have been fully paid, and a holder of said bonds shall have a lien against the special fund or said designated part thereof pledged for payment of said bonds and may either at law or in equity protect and enforce the lien. General funds derived from the tax allocation district may be used for payment of tax allocation bonds only to the extent that positive tax allocation increments and lease or other contract payments in the special fund are insufficient at any time to pay principal and interest due on such bonds. Subject to any agreement with bondholders, moneys in the fund may be temporarily invested in the same manner as other funds of the political subdivision. Except as provided in Code Section 36-44-20, general funds derived from the tax allocation district may be used for payment of tax allocation bonds only to the extent that positive tax allocation increments and lease or other contract payments in the special fund are insufficient at any time to pay the principal and interest due on such bonds. After all redevelopment costs and all tax allocation bonds of the district have been paid or provided for, subject to any agreement with bondholders, if there remains in the fund any moneys derived from positive tax allocation increments, they shall be paid over to each county, municipality, consolidated government, or county or independent board of education whose ad valorem property taxes were affected by the tax allocation district in proportion to the aggregate contribution of such taxes by such political subdivision less aggregate payments to such political subdivision pursuant to subparagraph (G) of paragraph (8) of Code Section 36-44-3 and in the same manner as the most recent distribution by the county tax collector or tax commissioner, municipal official responsible for collecting municipal ad valorem property taxes, or consolidated government official responsible for collecting consolidated government ad valorem property taxes. If there remains in the fund any other moneys, they shall be paid over to each political subdivision which contributed to the fund in proportion to the respective total contribution each made to the fund.

## History

Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 4/22/2009.
