# § 36-44-10. Determination of tax allocation increment base of tax allocation district; annual notice

(a) No later than the effective date of the creation of the tax allocation district, the redevelopment agency shall apply, in writing, to the state revenue commissioner for a determination of the tax allocation increment base of the tax allocation district. Within a reasonable time, and not exceeding 60 days after the effective date of the creation of the tax allocation district, the state revenue commissioner shall certify such tax allocation increment base, as of the effective date of the creation of the tax allocation district, to the redevelopment agency, and such certification, unless amended pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, shall constitute the tax allocation increment base of the tax allocation district.
(b) If the local legislative body of a political subdivision adopts an amendment to the resolution which created a tax allocation district and such amendment changes the boundaries of that tax allocation district so as to cause additional redevelopment costs for which tax allocation increments may be received by the political subdivision, the tax allocation increment base for the revised or amended district shall be redetermined pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section as of the effective date of such amendment. The tax allocation increment base as redetermined under this subsection is effective for the purposes of this chapter only if it exceeds the original tax allocation increment base determined under subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) It is a rebuttable presumption that any property within a tax allocation district acquired or leased as lessee by the political subdivision, or any agency or instrumentality thereof, within one year immediately preceding the date of the creation of the district was so acquired or leased in contemplation of the creation of the district. The presumption may be rebutted by the political subdivision with proof that the property was so leased or acquired primarily for a purpose other than to reduce the tax allocation increment base. If the presumption is not rebutted, in determining the tax allocation increment base of the district, but for no other purpose, the taxable status of the property shall be determined as though such lease or acquisition had not occurred.
(d) For each political subdivision whose area of operation includes a tax allocation district, the county board of tax assessors, joint city-county board of tax assessors, or board of tax assessors for a consolidated government, as the case may be, shall identify upon the tax digests of the political subdivision those parcels of property which are within each existing tax allocation district, specifying the name of each district. A similar notation shall appear on tax digests submitted to the state revenue commissioner pursuant to Code Section 48-5-302, relative to the submission of tax digests to the state revenue commissioner.
(e) The county board of tax assessors, joint city-county board of tax assessors, or consolidated government board of tax assessors shall annually give notice to the county tax collector or tax commissioner and to the municipal official responsible for collecting municipal ad valorem property taxes as to both the current taxable value of property subject to ad valorem property taxes within each tax allocation district and the tax allocation increment base. The notice shall also explain that any taxes collected as a result of increases in the tax allocation increment base constitute tax allocation increments and shall be paid to the appropriate political subdivision as provided by subsection (b) of Code Section 36-44-11.

## History

Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 4/22/2009.
