# § 36-44-4. Local legislative bodies serving as redevelopment agency; common redevelopment agency

(a) As an alternative to the creation of a redevelopment agency provided for by subsections (b) through (f) of this Code section, the local legislative body of a political subdivision, by resolution, may designate itself as its respective redevelopment agency and may exercise, within its respective area of operation, the redevelopment powers provided by this chapter.
(b) The local legislative body of a political subdivision may create a public body corporate and politic to serve as its redevelopment agency. Any such public corporation may be created by resolution adopted by the local legislative body of the political subdivision. Such resolution may provide for the membership of the board of directors of such public corporation and their terms of office, for the powers and duties of such public corporation, and for such other matters as may reasonably be necessary and convenient for the creation and activation of such public corporation as the redevelopment agency of the political subdivision.
(c) In the event a political subdivision has activated a public corporation as its "urban redevelopment agency" or designated a housing authority as its "urban redevelopment agency" pursuant to Code Sections 36-61-17 and 36-61-18 of the "Urban Redevelopment Law," the local legislative body of such political subdivision may designate such public corporation as its redevelopment agency for the purposes of this chapter. Any action taken pursuant to the authority of this subsection shall be by resolution duly adopted by the local legislative body of the political subdivision.
(d) Any county, municipality, and consolidated government, or any combination of such political subdivisions, by resolution of their respective local legislative bodies, may jointly create a public corporation, or designate an existing public corporation which already exercises "redevelopment powers" under any other law, to serve as the common redevelopment agency on behalf of such political subdivisions. The membership of the board of directors and their terms of office of any such jointly created public corporation and the powers and duties of such public corporation shall be as mutually agreed upon by the local legislative bodies of the participating political subdivisions, as evidenced by a resolution duly adopted by each such local legislative body. In the event a public corporation is created or designated, as authorized in this Code section, to serve as the common redevelopment agency of two or more political subdivisions, then the area of operation of such redevelopment agency shall be the combined areas of operation of the political subdivisions jointly creating or designating such redevelopment agency.
(e) A political subdivision may participate in the creation or designation of a public corporation to serve as a common redevelopment agency as provided by subsection (d) of this Code section as well as create or designate a public corporation to serve as the redevelopment agency of the political subdivision. In such event, the members of the board of directors of the public corporation created or designated as the redevelopment agency of the political subdivision may also serve, in accordance with the provisions of the resolution of the local legislative body of the political subdivision participating in the creation or designation of a public corporation to serve as a common redevelopment agency, as members of the board of directors of the jointly created public corporation.
(f) For purposes of redevelopment in its downtown area, any municipality may designate a downtown development authority created pursuant to Chapter 42 of this title to serve as a redevelopment agency. Such designation shall not affect any other redevelopment agency that may exist as a part of the municipality. The area of operation of any downtown development agency designated as a redevelopment agency pursuant to this subsection shall not exceed the area of operation of the downtown development authority established pursuant to Chapter 42 of this title.

## History

Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 4/22/2009.
