# § 53-12-214. Compensation from business enterprise

(a) Any trustee may receive compensation for services, as specified in this subsection, from a corporation or other business enterprise, where the trust estate owns an interest in the corporation or other business enterprise, provided that:
  (1) The services provided by the trustee to the corporation or other business enterprise are of a managerial, executive, or business advisory nature;
  (2) The compensation received for the services is reasonable; and
  (3) The services are performed and the trustee is paid pursuant to a contract executed by the trustee and the corporation or business enterprise, which contract is approved by a majority of those members of the board of directors or other similar governing authority of the corporation or business enterprise who are not officers or employees of the trustee and are not related to the trustee and provided, further, that the contract is approved by the court.
(b) Any trustee receiving compensation from a corporation or other business enterprise for services to it as described in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not receive extra compensation in respect to such services as provided in Code Section 53-12-212; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall prohibit the receipt by the trustee of extra compensation for services rendered in respect to other assets or matters involving the trust estate.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall prohibit the receipt by trustees of normal commissions and compensation for the usual services performed by trustees pursuant to law or pursuant to any fee agreement executed by the settlor.
(d) The purpose of this Code section is to enable additional compensation to be paid to trustees for business management and advisory services to corporations and business enterprises pursuant to contract, without the necessity of petitioning for extra compensation pursuant to Code Section 53-12-212.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
