# § 53-12-151. Deeds to interests in property

The owners of property located in this state or persons desiring to acquire beneficial ownership of such property may create by deed an estate therein and in the improvements made thereon and in the property to be acquired, for the benefit of themselves and such other persons, whether sui juris or not, who may contribute to the improvement or development or acquisition of the property and their assigns or transferees, provided that the deed creating the estate shall provide for the improvement or development of the property covered thereby or for the acquisition of the property and the trustee therein named, and his or her successor shall have some active duty to perform in and about the trust property or the management or control of the same. The deed creating the estate shall be recorded as provided in Code Section 53-12-152. When such an estate is created, the legal title to the property and all the property added thereto or substituted therefor shall vest and remain in the trustee named and his or her successor, in accordance with the terms of the deed, with all the powers conferred thereby upon the trustee, and shall not during the continuance of the estate pass to or vest in the beneficiaries. At the end of 25 years from the date of the deed creating the estate, the title to such of the property as may then belong to the estate shall vest in the beneficiaries; and, if the deed creating the estate so provides, a renewal of the estate may be made at the end of the 25 years, upon the terms and conditions and in the manner therein set forth, for a like period; provided, however, that in the alternative to the period of 25 years and the renewal thereof, if the deed so provides, the estate may be created for any period of time specified therein which does not extend beyond any number of lives in being and 21 years thereafter.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
