# § 53-12-9. Binding nonjudicial settlement agreement

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, the trustee, any trust director, and all other persons whose interests would be affected may enter into a binding nonjudicial settlement agreement with respect to any matter involving the trust.
(b) A nonjudicial settlement agreement:
  (1) Shall be valid only to the extent it does not violate a material purpose of the trust and includes terms and conditions that could be properly approved by the court under this Code section or other applicable law; and
  (2) Shall not be valid with respect to any modification or termination of an irrevocable trust when the settlor's consent would be required in a proceeding to approve such modification or termination under subsection (b) of Code Section 53-12-61.
(c) The trustee, trust director, and any person whose interests would be affected by a nonjudicial settlement agreement may request that the court approve such agreement, determine whether the representation as provided in Code Section 53-12-8 was adequate, determine whether such agreement violates a material purpose of the trust, determine whether such agreement contains terms and conditions the court could have properly approved, or make any other similar determination.
(d) A nonjudicial settlement agreement entered into in accordance with this Code section shall be final and binding on all parties to such agreement, including individuals not sui juris, unborn beneficiaries, and persons unknown who are represented by a person who may represent and bind such parties under Code Section 53-12-8, as if ordered by a court with competent jurisdiction over the trust, the trust property, and the parties.
(e) Entering into or petitioning a court regarding a nonjudicial settlement agreement under this Code section shall not constitute a violation of a condition in terrorem under Code Section 53-12-22.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 508,§ 1-73, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 53, eff. 7/29/2020.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 366,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2018.
