# § 53-12-243. Duty to provide reports and accounts

(a) On reasonable request by any qualified beneficiary, the trustee shall provide the qualified beneficiary with a report of information, to the extent relevant to that beneficiary's interest, about the assets, liabilities, receipts, and disbursements of the trust, the acts of the trustee, and the particulars relating to the administration of such trust, including the trust provisions that describe or affect such beneficiary's interest.
(b)
  (1) A trustee shall account at least annually, at the termination of the trust, and upon a change of trustees to each beneficiary of an irrevocable trust to whom income is required or authorized in the trustee's discretion to be distributed currently, and to any person who may revoke the trust. At the termination of the trust, the trustee shall also account to each remainder beneficiary. Upon a change of trustees, the trustee shall also account to the successor trustee.
  (2) An accounting furnished to a beneficiary pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection shall contain a statement of receipts and disbursements of principal and income that have occurred during the last complete fiscal year of the trust or since the last accounting to that beneficiary and a statement of the assets and liabilities of the trust as of the end of the accounting period.
(c) A trustee shall not be required to report information or account to a beneficiary who has waived in writing the right to a report or accounting and has not withdrawn that waiver.
(d) Subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section and the common law duty of the trustee to keep the beneficiaries of the trust reasonably informed of the trust and its administration shall not apply to the extent that the provisions of the trust provide otherwise or the settlor of the trust directs otherwise in a writing delivered to the trustee.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall affect the power of a court to require or excuse an accounting.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 508,§ 1-83, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 366,§ 19, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
