# § 53-12-451. Disbursements from principal

(a) A trustee shall make the following disbursements from principal:
  (1) The remaining one-half of the disbursements described in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 53-12-450;
  (2) All of the trustee's compensation calculated on principal as a fee for acceptance, distribution, or termination and disbursements made to prepare property for sale;
  (3) Payments on the principal of a trust debt;
  (4) Court costs, attorney's fees, and other fees and expenses of a proceeding that concerns primarily principal, including a proceeding to construe the trust or to protect the trust or its property;
  (5) Premiums paid on a policy of insurance not described in paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of Code Section 53-12-450, of which the trust is the owner and beneficiary;
  (6) Estate, inheritance, and other transfer taxes, including penalties, apportioned to the trust; and
  (7) Disbursements related to environmental matters, including reclamation, assessing environmental conditions, remedying and removing environmental contamination, monitoring remedial activities and the release of substances, preventing future releases of substances, collecting amounts from persons liable or potentially liable for the costs of those activities, penalties imposed under environmental laws or regulations and other payments made to comply with those laws or regulations, statutory or common law claims by third parties, and defending claims based on environmental matters.
(b) Any of the disbursements provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section made in connection with judicial proceedings may be varied by the order of the court.
(c) If a principal asset is encumbered with an obligation that requires income from that asset to be paid directly to the creditor, the trustee shall transfer from principal to income an amount equal to the income paid to the creditor in reduction of the principal balance of such obligation.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 181,§ 17, eff. 5/12/2011.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
