# § 53-12-270. Exercise of power by trustee who is also a beneficiary

(a) Subject to subsection (c) of this Code section, and unless the trust provisions expressly indicate that a rule in this subsection shall not apply:
  (1) A person other than a settlor who is a beneficiary and trustee of a trust that confers on such trustee a power to make discretionary distributions to or for such trustee's personal benefit may exercise such power only in accordance with an ascertainable standard; and
  (2) A trustee shall not exercise a power to make discretionary distributions to satisfy a legal obligation of support that such trustee personally owes another person.
(b) A power whose exercise is limited or prohibited by subsection (a) of this Code section may be exercised by a majority of the remaining trustees whose exercise of such power is not so limited or prohibited. If the power of all trustees is so limited or prohibited, the court may appoint a special fiduciary with authority to exercise the power.
(c) Subsection (a) of this Code section shall not apply to:
  (1) A power held by the settlor's spouse who is the trustee of a trust for which a marital deduction, as defined in Section 2056(b)(5) or 2523(e) of the federal Internal Revenue Code of 1986, was previously allowed;
  (2) Any trust during any period that the trust may be revoked or amended by its settlor; or
  (3) A trust if contributions to such trust qualify for the annual exclusion under Section 2503(c) of the federal Internal Revenue Code of 1986.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
