# § 53-12-292. Deposit of securities in clearing corporation

(a) Any fiduciary holding securities in its fiduciary capacity, any bank or trust company holding securities as a custodian or managing agent, and any bank or trust company holding securities as custodian for a fiduciary shall be authorized to deposit or arrange for the deposit of the securities in a clearing corporation, as defined in Article 8 of Title 11. When the securities are deposited, certificates representing securities of the same class of the same issuer may be merged and held in bulk, in the name of the nominee of the clearing corporation, with any other such securities deposited in the clearing corporation by any person, regardless of the ownership of the securities, and certificates of small denominations may be merged into one or more certificates of larger denomination. The records of the fiduciary and the records of the bank or trust company acting as custodian, as managing agent, or as custodian for a fiduciary shall at all times show the name of the party for whose account the securities are deposited. Title to the securities may be transferred by bookkeeping entry on the books of the clearing corporation without physical delivery of certificates representing the securities.
(b) A bank or trust company depositing securities pursuant to this Code section shall be subject to such rules and regulations as, in the case of state chartered institutions, the commissioner of banking and finance and, in the case of national banking associations, the comptroller of the currency may from time to time issue.
(c) A bank or trust company acting as custodian for a fiduciary, on demand by the fiduciary, shall certify in writing to the fiduciary the securities deposited by the bank or trust company in the clearing corporation for the account of the fiduciary. A fiduciary, on demand by any party to a judicial proceeding for the settlement of the fiduciary's account or on demand by the attorney for the party, shall certify in writing to the party the securities deposited by the fiduciary in the clearing corporation for its account as the fiduciary.
(d) This Code section shall apply to any fiduciary holding securities in its fiduciary capacity and to any bank or trust company holding securities as a custodian, managing agent, or custodian for a fiduciary acting on April 13, 1973, or acting thereafter, regardless of the date of the agreement, instrument, or court order by which it is appointed and regardless of whether or not the fiduciary, custodian, managing agent, or custodian for a fiduciary owns capital stock of the clearing corporation.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
