# § 53-12-80. Spendthrift provisions

(a) A spendthrift provision shall only be valid if it prohibits both voluntary and involuntary transfers.
(b) A term of a trust providing that the interest of a beneficiary is held subject to a spendthrift trust, or words of similar import, shall be sufficient to restrain both voluntary and involuntary transfer of the beneficiary's interest in the manner set forth in this article.
(c) A beneficiary shall not transfer an interest in a trust in violation of a valid spendthrift provision, and, except as otherwise provided in this Code section, a creditor or assignee of the beneficiary shall not reach the interest or a distribution by the trustee before its receipt by the beneficiary.
(d) A spendthrift provision shall not be valid as to the following claims against a beneficiary's right to a current distribution to the extent the distribution would be subject to garnishment under Article 1 of Chapter 4 of Title 18 if the distribution were disposable earnings:
  (1) Alimony or child support;
  (2) Taxes or other governmental claims;
  (3) Tort judgments;
  (4) Judgments or orders for restitution as a result of a criminal conviction of the beneficiary; or
  (5) Judgments for necessaries. The ability of a creditor or assignee to reach a beneficiary's interest under this subsection shall not apply to the extent that it would disqualify the trust as a special needs trust established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Sections 1396p(d)(4)(A) or 1396p(d)(4)(C).
(e) A provision in a trust instrument that a beneficiary's interest shall terminate or become discretionary upon an attempt by the beneficiary to transfer it, an attempt by the beneficiary's creditors to reach it, or upon the bankruptcy or receivership of the beneficiary shall be valid except to the extent of the proportion of trust property attributable to such beneficiary's contribution.
(f) If a beneficiary is also a contributor to the trust, a spendthrift provision shall not be valid as to such beneficiary to the extent of the proportion of trust property attributable to such beneficiary's contribution. This subsection shall not apply to a special needs trust established pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Sections 1396p(d)(4)(A) or 1396p(d)(4)(C).
(g) Notwithstanding any other provision in this Code section, a spendthrift provision in a pension or retirement arrangement described in sections 401, 403, 404, 408, 408A, 409, 414, or 457 of the federal Internal Revenue Code of 1986 shall be valid with reference to the entire interest of the beneficiary in the income, principal, or both, even if the beneficiary is also a contributor of trust property, except where a claim is made pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order as defined in 26 U.S.C. Section 414(p).

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 325,§ 4, eff. 5/12/2016.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 53, eff. 5/13/2011.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
