# § 53-12-401. Apportionment of receipts and disbursements when decedent dies or income interest begins

(a) A trustee shall allocate an income receipt or disbursement to principal if its due date occurs before a decedent dies in the case of an estate or before an income interest begins in the case of a trust or successive income interest.
(b) A trustee shall allocate an income receipt or disbursement to income if its due date occurs on or after the date on which a decedent dies or an income interest begins and it is a periodic due date. An income receipt or disbursement shall be treated as accruing from day to day if its due date is not periodic or it has no due date. The portion of the receipt or disbursement accruing before the date on which a decedent dies or an income interest begins shall be allocated to principal, and the balance shall be allocated to income.
(c) An item of income or an obligation shall be due on the date the payor is required to make a payment. If a payment date is not stated, there shall be no due date for the purposes of this Code section. Distributions to shareholders or other owners from an entity to which Code Section 53-12-410 applies shall be deemed to be due on the date fixed by the entity for determining who is entitled to receive the distribution or, if no date is fixed, on the declaration date for the distribution. A due date shall be periodic for receipts or disbursements that have to be paid at regular intervals under a lease or an obligation to pay interest or if an entity customarily makes distributions at regular intervals.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 53, eff. 5/13/2011.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
