# § 53-12-381. Definitions

(1) "Accounting period" means a calendar year unless another 12 month period is selected by a fiduciary. Such term includes a portion of a calendar year or other 12 month period that begins when an income interest begins or ends when an income interest ends.
(2) "Beneficiary" includes, in the case of a decedent's estate, an heir and devisee and, in the case of a trust, an income beneficiary and a remainder beneficiary.
(3) "Fiduciary" means a personal representative or a trustee. Such term includes an executor, administrator, successor personal representative, special administrator, and a person performing substantially the same function.
(4) "Income" means money or property that a fiduciary receives as current return from a principal asset. Such term includes a portion of receipts from a sale, exchange, or liquidation of a principal asset, to the extent provided in Part 4 of this article.
(5) "Income beneficiary" means a person to whom net income of a trust is or may be payable.
(6) "Income interest" means the right of an income beneficiary to receive all or part of net income, whether the trust provisions require it to be distributed or authorize it to be distributed in the trustee's discretion.
(7) "Mandatory income interest" means the right of an income beneficiary to receive net income that the trust provisions require the fiduciary to distribute.
(8) "Net income" means the total receipts allocated to income during an accounting period minus the disbursements made from income during the period, plus or minus transfers under this article to or from income during the period.
(9) "Person" means an individual, corporation, business trust, estate, trust, partnership, limited liability company, association, joint venture, or government; a governmental subdivision, agency, or instrumentality; a public corporation; or any other legal or commercial entity.
(10) "Principal" means property held in trust for distribution to a remainder beneficiary when the trust terminates.
(11) "Terms of the trust" means the manifestation of the intent of a settlor or decedent with respect to the trust, expressed in a manner that admits of its proof in a judicial proceeding.
(12) "Trustee" includes an original, additional, or successor trustee, whether or not appointed or confirmed by a court.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
