# § 53-12-101. Making of testamentary additions to trusts

(a) A devise or bequest, the validity of which is determinable by the law of this state, may be made by a will to the trustee of a trust established or to be established by the testator or by the testator and some other person or by some other person, including a funded or unfunded life insurance trust, even if the settlor has reserved any or all rights of ownership of the insurance contracts, if the trust is identified in the testator's will and its provisions are set forth in a written trust instrument, other than a will, executed before or concurrently with the execution of the testator's will or in the valid last will of a person who has predeceased the testator, regardless of the existence, size, or character of the corpus of the trust and notwithstanding the requirements of paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 53-12-20. The devise or bequest shall not be invalid because the trust is amendable or revocable or both or because the trust was amended after the execution of the will or after the death of the testator.
(b) Unless the testator's will provides otherwise, the property so devised or bequeathed:
  (1) Shall not be deemed to be held under a testamentary trust of the testator but shall become a part of the trust to which it is devised or bequeathed; and
  (2) Shall be administered and disposed of in accordance with the provisions of the trust instrument or will setting forth the terms of the trust, including any amendments thereto made before or after the testator's death.
(c) Unless the testator's will provides otherwise, a revocation or termination of the trust before the death of the testator shall cause the devise or bequest to lapse.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
