# § 43-23-2. Georgia Board of Landscape Architects; members

(a) The Georgia Board of Landscape Architects is created and shall be under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of State and the division director. The board shall be composed of five members, each of whom shall be appointed by the Governor. Four of the five members shall be licensed landscape architects who shall be residents of this state and actively engaged in the practice of landscape architecture. The fifth member of the board shall be a resident of this state and shall have no connection whatsoever with the practice of landscape architecture. The four members of the board in office on July 1, 1993, shall serve the remainder of their terms of office, as provided by the law under which each was appointed. The additional member to be added to the board in 1993 shall be appointed for an initial term of four years. Upon the expiration of each member's term of office, a successor shall be appointed for a term of four years, and all succeeding appointments made under this subsection shall be for four-year terms.
(b) Members of the board shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. Vacancies on the board shall be filled by appointment of the Governor and, in the same manner as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, for the unexpired term of the member creating such vacancy.
(c) The board shall select from its members a chairman.
(d) The board may do all things necessary and convenient for its own government and for carrying into effect the provisions of this chapter and may promulgate necessary rules and regulations to carry out the provisions of this chapter, not otherwise inconsistent with this chapter, including regulations governing the professional conduct of persons licensed by the board. The board shall be authorized to meet as often as necessary in order to conduct its business, but in no event shall the board meet less than twice during every calendar year.
(e) Each member of the board shall be reimbursed as provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 43-1-2.
