# § 12-5-238. Form and contents of application for permit

(1) The name and address of the applicant;
(2) A brief description of the proposed project;
(3) Construction documents showing the applicant's proposed project and the manner or method by which the project shall be accomplished. Such document shall identify the dynamic dune field affected;
(4) A copy of the deed or other instrument under which the applicant claims title to the property or, if the applicant is not the owner, a copy of the deed or other instrument under which the owner claims the title together with written permission from the owner to carry out the project on the owner's land. In lieu of a deed or other instrument referred to in this paragraph, the committee may accept some other reasonable evidence of ownership of the property in question or other lawful authority to make use of the property. If all or any part of the proposed construction or alteration shall take place on property which is owned by the State of Georgia, the applicant shall present an easement, revocable license, or other written permission from the state to use the property for the proposed project; in the alternative, the committee may condition the issuance of the permit on the requirement to obtain written permission from the state. The committee will not adjudicate title disputes concerning the property which is the subject of the application; provided, however, that the committee may decline to process an application when submitted documents show conflicting deeds;
(5) A plat showing the boundaries of the proposed project site;
(6) The names and addresses of all landowners of property adjoining or abutting the parcel of land on which the proposed project is to be located. If the property to be altered is bordered on any side by other property of the applicant, the applicant shall supply the names and addresses of the nearest landowners, other than the applicant, of property adjoining the applicant's property. If the applicant cannot determine the identity of adjoining landowners or their addresses, the applicant shall file in lieu thereof an affidavit stating that a diligent search, including a search of the records of the county tax assessor's office, has been made but that the applicant was not able to ascertain the names or addresses of adjoining landowners;
(7) A nonrefundable application fee to be set by the board in an amount necessary to defray the administrative cost of issuing such permit. Renewal fees shall be equal to application fees, which shall not exceed $1,000.00 for any one proposal and shall be paid to the department;
(8) Site plans for the proposed project site showing existing and proposed streets, utilities, buildings, and any other physical structures;
(9) A certification by a registered architect or engineer licensed by this state certifying that all proposed structures, if any, for which the permit is applied are designed to meet suitable hurricane-resistant standards;
(10) Any and all other relevant data required by the committee for the purposes of ascertaining that the proposed improvements, activities, and uses will meet the standards of this part;
(11) A certificate or letter from the local governing authority or authorities of the political subdivision in which the property is located stating that the applicant's proposal would not violate any zoning law; and
(12) A statement from the applicant that he or she has made inquiry to the appropriate authorities that the proposed project is not over a landfill or hazardous waste site and that the site is otherwise suitable for the proposed project.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 152,§ 4, eff. 12/31/2019.
