# § 12-5-283. Coastal Marshlands Protection Committee created; members; powers; per diem and expenses; administrative hearings and review; permits for minor alterations

(a) There is created the Coastal Marshlands Protection Committee to be composed of five members. The commissioner of natural resources and four persons selected by the board shall be the members of this committee. Each of three persons selected by the board shall be a resident of Camden, Glynn, McIntosh, Liberty, Bryan, or Chatham County. Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. The committee shall issue all orders and shall grant, deny, revoke, and amend all permits and leases provided for by this part. The members of the committee shall be entitled to reimbursement of actual expenses and mileage together with a per diem as set by the board to be paid out of funds appropriated for use by the department.
(b) Any person who is aggrieved or adversely affected by any order or action of the committee shall, upon petition within 30 days after the issuance of such order or the taking of such action, have a right to a hearing before an administrative law judge appointed by the board. The hearing before the administrative law judge shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and the rules and regulations adopted by the board pursuant thereto. The decision of the administrative law judge shall constitute the final decision of the board and any party to the hearing, including the committee, shall have the right of judicial review thereof in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50.
(c) Persons are "aggrieved or adversely affected" where the challenged action has caused or will cause them injury in fact and where the injury is to an interest within the zone of interests to be protected or regulated by this part. In the event the committee asserts in response to the petition before the administrative law judge that the petitioner is not aggrieved or adversely affected, the administrative law judge shall take evidence and hear arguments on this issue and thereafter make a ruling on this issue before continuing with the hearing. The burden of going forward with evidence on this issue shall rest with the petitioner.
(d) Any permit for minor alteration of the marshlands may be issued by the commissioner based on the recommendations of staff, past committee actions, and the results of public comments. The commissioner may refer the application to the committee to decide on permits for minor alterations that, in his judgment, should receive broader consideration. A committee member may choose to have the full committee decide on permit applications for minor alterations that the member feels should receive broader consideration.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 490, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
