# § 12-5-524. Water Council created; obligations of council

(a) There shall be a Water Council composed of one member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives who shall not be a member of the General Assembly and who shall serve for a term of four years and until a successor is appointed and qualified; one member appointed by the President Pro Tempore of the Senate who shall not be a member of the General Assembly and who shall serve for a term of four years and until a successor is appointed and qualified; and the following state officials who shall serve ex officio as members of the committee: the director of the division, the commissioner of natural resources, the executive director of the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission, the commissioner of community affairs, the commissioner of public health, the Commissioner of Agriculture, the director of the State Forestry Commission, and the executive director of the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority. In addition, the chairperson of the Senate Natural Resources and the Environment Committee, ex officio, and one additional member of that committee to be selected by its chairperson; and the chairperson of the House Committee on Natural Resources and Environment, ex officio, and one additional member of that committee to be selected by its chairperson, shall each serve in an advisory capacity. Any vacancy among the two appointed members of the Water Council who are not members of the General Assembly other than for expiration of term shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment for the unexpired term. The director shall serve as chairperson of the Water Council.
(b) The Water Council shall:
  (1) Ensure coordination, cooperation, and communication among state agencies and their water related efforts in the development of a comprehensive state-wide water management plan;
  (2) Provide input to the division concerning the development of a comprehensive state-wide water management plan;
  (3) Review, modify if necessary, and approve the final draft of the proposed comprehensive state-wide water management plan; and
  (4) Recommend such initial proposed plan for consideration by the General Assembly not later than the first day of the regular session of the General Assembly next occurring after such completion but not later than the first day of the 2008 regular session of the General Assembly.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 12, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-5, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 634,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 12, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 571, § 2, eff. 5/13/2004.
Former § 12-5-524 was repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 571, § 2, eff. 5/13/2004.
