# § 12-5-580. Coordinating committees; finance committees

(a) The board shall create one or more technical coordinating committees comprised primarily of water and waste-water officials from counties, cities, and authorities in the district. Such committees shall provide additional support to the board and staff for specific areas and issues such as water treatment, waste-water treatment, and storm-water management.
(b) The board shall create a finance committee which shall meet with the boards and staffs of the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority, the Department of Community Affairs, and the Department of Natural Resources for the purpose of developing recommendations for a funding structure for the district and for projects included in the district plans developed pursuant to this article, and that authority and those departments, their boards, and staffs are directed to cooperate with the district in developing such recommendations. The board shall consider the recommendations of the finance committee and forward them as adopted or amended to the Governor, the Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairpersons of the Senate Natural Resources and the Environment Committee and the House Committee on Natural Resources and Environment not later than December 1, 2001. Such recommendations may be updated and revised from time to time thereafter.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 634,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 74,§ 13, eff. 4/30/2009.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 27, § 1, eff. 5/1/2001.
