# § 12-5-92. Definitions

(1) "Aquifer" means a geologic formation, group of such formations, or a part of such a formation that is water-bearing.
(2) "Area of the state" means any municipality or county or portion thereof or other substantial geographical area of the state as may be designated by the division.
(3) "Consumptive use" means any use of water withdrawn from the ground other than a "nonconsumptive use," as defined in this part.
(4) "Director" means the director, or his designee, of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
(5) "Division" means the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
(5.1) "Farm uses" means irrigation of any land used for general farming, forage, aquaculture, pasture, turf production, orchards, or tree and ornamental nurseries; provisions of water supply for farm animals, poultry farming, or any other activity conducted in the course of a farming operation. Farm uses shall also include the processing of perishable agricultural products and the irrigation of recreational turf, except in Chatham, Effingham, Bryan, and Glynn counties, where irrigation of recreational turf shall not be considered a farm use.
(6) "Ground water" means water of underground streams, channels, artesian basins, reservoirs, lakes, and other water under the surface of the earth, whether public or private, natural or artificial, which is contained within, flows through, or borders upon this state or any portion thereof, including those portions of the Atlantic Ocean over which this state has jurisdiction.
(7) "Nonconsumptive use" means the use of water withdrawn from a ground-water system or aquifer in such a manner that it is returned to the ground-water system or aquifer from which it was withdrawn without substantial diminution in quantity or substantial impairment in quality at or near the point from which it was withdrawn, provided that in determining whether a use of ground water is nonconsumptive, the division may take into consideration whether any material injury or detriment to other water users of the area, by reason of reduction of water pressure in the aquifer or system, has not been adequately compensated by the permit applicant who caused or substantially contributed to such injury or detriment.
(8) "Person" means any and all persons, including individuals, firms, partnerships, associations, public or private institutions, municipalities or political subdivisions, governmental agencies, or private or public corporations organized under the laws of this state or any other state or country.
(9) "Well" means any excavation that is cored, bored, drilled, jetted, dug, or otherwise constructed for the purpose of locating, testing, or withdrawing ground water, or for the purpose of evaluating, testing, developing, draining, or recharging any ground-water reservoirs or aquifer, or any excavation that may control, divert, or otherwise cause the movement of water from or into any aquifer, provided that this shall not include a well constructed by an individual on land which is owned or leased by him, appurtenant to a single-family dwelling, and intended for domestic use, including household purposes, farm livestock, or gardens.
