# § 12-5-576. Open meetings; quorum; voting; executive sessions

(a) The board shall meet at least three times per year at a time and place set forth in the minutes of the district and at such other times as the chairperson may direct. All such meetings shall be open to the public.
(b) A majority of the members to which the board is entitled shall constitute a quorum.
(c) Once a quorum has been established, a majority of the members to which the board is entitled shall be required to adopt any matter before the district.
(d) Each member of the board shall have one vote to be cast in person, and there shall be no voting by proxy; provided, however, that each member serving on the board pursuant to the provisions of paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 12-5-575 shall be entitled to designate in writing to the chairperson of the board an alternate who may exercise any of the powers and discharge any of the duties of such member provided for in this article, including voting, in the absence of such member, other than serving as chairperson, vice chairperson, or secretary-treasurer of the board.
(e) The district, by a majority vote of those members of the board present, may go into executive session for the purposes of discussing personnel matters, meeting with attorneys representing the district in adversarial or potentially adversarial situations, and for any other purpose authorized by and consistent with Chapter 14 of Title 50.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 520, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 27.
