# § 12-5-133.1. Civil penalties; hearing

(a) In addition to the provisions of Code Section 12-5-133, any person violating any provision of this part or the rules or regulations effective under this part shall be liable for a civil penalty not to exceed $5,000.00 per day. Each day during which the violation or failure or refusal to comply continues shall be a separate violation.
(b) Whenever the director has reason to believe that any person has violated any provision of this part or any rule or regulation effective under this part, he or she may upon written request cause a hearing to be conducted before a hearing officer appointed by the board. Upon finding that such person has violated any provision of this part or any rule or regulation effective under this part, the hearing officer shall issue his or her decision imposing civil penalties as provided in this Code section. Such hearing and any administrative or judicial review thereof shall be conducted in accordance with subsection (c) of Code Section 12-2-2.
(c) In rendering a decision under this Code section imposing civil penalties, the hearing officer shall consider all factors which are relevant, including, but not limited to, the following:
  (1) The amount of civil penalty necessary to ensure immediate and continued compliance and the extent to which the violator may have profited by failing or delaying to comply;
  (2) The character and degree of impact of the violation or failure on the natural resources of the state, especially any rare or unique natural phenomena;
  (3) The conduct of the person incurring the civil penalty in promptly taking all feasible steps or procedures necessary or appropriate to comply with this part or to correct the violation or failure;
  (4) Any prior violations of or failures by such person to comply with statutes, rules, regulations, or orders administered, adopted, or issued by the director or the council;
  (5) The character and degree of injury to or interference with public health or safety which is caused or threatened to be caused by such violation or failure; and
  (6) The character and degree of injury to or interference with reasonable use of property which is caused or threatened to be caused by such violation or failure.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 180, § 9, eff. 7/1/2001.
