# § 12-5-42. Cooperative efforts for abatement of pollution; order by director; request for hearing; allowance of reasonable time for abatement

(a) Whenever the division determines that any person is discharging sewage, industrial waste, or other wastes into any waters of the state in a degree which prevents the water from meeting the established standards of water purity, the division shall act to secure the person's cooperation in the reduction or elimination of the detrimental effects of the discharge.
(b) The division shall supply to the person causing the pollution such technical and scientific information as may be helpful in reducing or eliminating the polluting effects of the discharge, but the responsibility for development and application of means of preventing pollution rests with the person causing the pollution.
(c) Whenever any person refuses to cooperate with the efforts of the director to reduce pollution, the director may issue an order to bring about the reduction or elimination of the pollution. Any order issued by the director under this article shall become final unless the person aggrieved requests in writing a hearing before the director no later than 30 days after such order is served. However, before issuing or enforcing such an order, the director shall allow any person a reasonable time to make the necessary financial arrangements or make other necessary preparations for the elimination of the pollution.
(d) Whenever the division determines that a violation of any provision of this article or any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to this article relating to the withdrawal, diversion, or impoundment of surface water has occurred, the division shall by conference, conciliation, or persuasion attempt to convince the violator to cease such violation. If in the opinion of the director such efforts fail, the director may issue an order to bring about the cessation of such violation. Such order shall specify the alleged violation and shall prescribe a reasonable time for corrective action to be accomplished. Any order issued pursuant to this subsection shall become final unless the person aggrieved requests a hearing in writing before the director not later than 30 days after such order is served.
