# § 12-5-500. Definitions

(1) "Damages" means damages of any kind for which liability may exist under the laws of this state resulting from, arising out of, or related to the discharge or threatened discharge of oil.
(2) "Discharge" means any emission, other than natural seepage, whether intentional or unintentional, and includes, but is not limited to, spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying, or dumping.
(3) "Federal on-scene coordinator" means the federal official designated by the United States Environmental Protection Agency or the United States Coast Guard to coordinate and direct federal responses under subpart D or the official designated by the lead agency to coordinate and direct removal under subpart E of the National Contingency Plan.
(4) "National Contingency Plan" means the National Contingency Plan prepared and published under Section 311(d) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, 33 U.S.C. Section 1321(d), as amended by the federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-380, 104 Stat. 484 (1990).
(5) "Oil" means oil of any kind or in any form, including, but not limited to, petroleum, fuel oil, sludge, oil refuse, and oil mixed with wastes other than dredged spoil.
(6) "Person" means an individual, corporation, partnership, association, state, municipality, commission, political subdivision of a state, or any interstate body.
(7) "Removal costs" means the costs of removal that are incurred after a discharge of oil has occurred or, in any case in which there is a substantial threat of a discharge of oil, the costs to prevent, minimize, or mitigate oil pollution from such an incident.
(8) "Responsible party" means a responsible party as defined under Section 1001 of the federal Oil Pollution Act of 1990, Pub. L. No. 101-380, 104 Stat. 484 (1990).
