# § 12-5-23.3. Privatization of waste-water treatment facilities

(a) For purposes of this Code section only, the term:
  (1) "LAS permit" means Land Application System permit.
  (2) "NPDES permit" means National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit.
  (3) "Waste-water treatment facilities" means all publicly owned facilities with average monthly flow limits of 20 million gallons per day or more that have been issued NPDES permits or LAS permits.
(b) The director shall provide written notice to owners of all waste-water treatment facilities that the privatization requirements specified in subsection (c) of this Code section are in effect if the owner of such facility has violated its NPDES or LAS permit, or any interim conditions established by a federal court order, as follows:
  (1) A violation of the facility's monthly effluent limitation specified in the NPDES permit or conditions of a federal court order for biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids, ammonia, or phosphorus for any eight months during any continuous 12 month period starting on or after January 1, 1999;
  (2) A violation of the facility's monthly effluent limitation specified in the NPDES permit or conditions of a federal court order for biochemical oxygen demand, total suspended solids, ammonia, or phosphorus by a factor of 1.4 or greater for any four months during any continuous 12 month period, starting on or after January 1, 1999; or
  (3) Three major treatment facility bypasses during any continuous 12 month period starting on or after January 1, 1999. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "major treatment facility bypass" shall mean any diversion of waste water from or bypassing of waste water around the treatment facility, excluding sewer system overflows; provided, however, that this shall not include any bypass which is authorized by any NPDES or LAS permit or any bypass which is necessary to prevent loss of life, bodily injury, or severe property damage.
(c) Within 12 months of receipt of written notification from the director in accordance with subsection (b) of this Code section, the owner shall enter into a binding contract with a private contractor for the operation and maintenance of the waste-water facility as follows:
  (1) The contractor shall be selected, and the contract shall be awarded, through competitive bidding, in accordance with the public procurement processes and procedures then in effect for the public owner or, at the option of the owner, through competitive bidding by the Department of Administrative Services in accordance with and as permitted by Part 2 of Article 3 of Chapter 5 of Title 50;
  (2) The scope of the contract shall include the operation and maintenance of the entire facility and sewer collection system, including combined sewer overflow treatment facilities, by the selected contractor;
  (3) Notwithstanding any provisions of law to the contrary, the term of the contract shall be not less than ten years nor more than 50 years; and
  (4) The contract shall meet all applicable state and local laws, rules, and regulations pertinent to the awarding, drafting, enforcement, and administration of such contract and shall contain such other contractual provisions as may be reasonably necessary for the effective enforcement and administration of the contract.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 758,§ 5, eff. 5/14/2008.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 12, eff. 4/14/2006.
