# § 12-5-175. Fluoridation of public water systems; state funds for cost of fluoridation equipment, chemicals, and materials; tax deduction for fluoride-removing devices

(a) The Board of Natural Resources shall have the power to require, by regulation, fluoridation of potable public water supplies in incorporated communities lying wholly within this state, provided that in no case should such fluoridation be required at a level greater than one part per million parts of water; provided, further, that any municipality or county and its water system can remove themselves from the terms of this part by referendum called by petition of 10 percent of the registered voters in such political subdivision who voted in the last general election. This applies to a referendum for or against fluoridation.
(b) No incorporated municipality, county, or public or private water authority shall be required to comply with subsection (a) of this Code section unless the state has made available funds for the cost of the fluoridation equipment, the installation of such equipment, and the materials and chemicals required for six months of fluoridation of such potable public water supplies.
(c) Any person who is deemed allergic to fluoridated water and who finds it necessary, upon the advice of a physician or upon approval by the Department of Public Health, to purchase a device to remove the fluoride from the water may treat the cost of the device as a tax-deductible medical expense.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
