# § 12-5-474. Rentals, fees, and other charges; deposit of funds; terms and conditions for use of project

(a) The division may fix rentals, fees, prices, and other charges which any user, concessionaire, franchisee, or vendor shall pay to the division for the use of a project or part thereof or combination thereof, and for the goods and services provided by the division in conjunction with such use, as the division may deem necessary or appropriate to provide in connection with such use, and to charge and collect the same. Such rentals, fees, prices, and other charges shall be so fixed and adjusted in respect to the aggregate thereof from a project or any part thereof so as to be reasonably expected to provide a fund sufficient with other revenues of such project and funds available to the division, if any, to pay the cost of maintaining, repairing, and operating a project, including the reserves for extraordinary repairs and insurance, unless such cost shall be otherwise provided for, which costs shall be deemed to include the expenses incurred by the division on account of a project for water, light, sewer, and other services furnished by other facilities at such project. Such fees shall be fixed after consideration of input from local governments served by the project to which the fees pertain.
(b) All those funds generated by the operation of the projects and paid to the division shall be deposited in the Georgia Reservoir Fund established by Code Section 50-23-28.
(c) The division may establish the terms and conditions upon which any lessee, sublessee, licensee, user, franchisee, or vendor shall be authorized to use a project as the division may determine necessary or appropriate, subject to the limitations provided for by this article.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 578,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2008.
