# § 12-5-353. Duties of department as to scenic rivers

(a) The Department of Natural Resources shall study and from time to time recommend to the Governor and General Assembly rivers or sections of rivers to be considered for designation as scenic rivers. Each recommendation shall be accompanied by a report showing the proposed area and its classification, the characteristics which qualify the river or section of river for designation as a scenic river, ownership and use of land in the area, the state agency which should administer the area, and the estimated costs of acquiring fee title and scenic easements and of administering the area as a scenic river. The department may conduct such studies in cooperation with appropriate agencies of the State of Georgia and the United States and may apply for and receive funds therefor from the Land and Water Conservation Fund and other federal sources, provided that such studies must be first approved by the person or persons appointed by the Governor to serve as a liaison with certain federal agencies under the terms of Public Law 90-542 (82 Stat. 906), approved October 2, 1968, such law having been designated the "Wild and Scenic Rivers Act."
(b) The department shall proceed to make a study of each of the following rivers and make a report of its findings and recommendations to the Governor and the General Assembly:
  (1) The Suwanee River from its source in the Okefenokee Swamp to the point where it flows out of the State of Georgia; and
  (2) That section of the Chattooga River within the State of Georgia.
(c) Each scenic river, together with the land lying within its authorized boundary, as established by the General Assembly, shall be classified as one of the following:
  (1)Natural river area. This is a free-flowing river or section of river generally inaccessible except by trail, with the shoreline undeveloped and unused;
  (2)Pastoral river area. This is a free-flowing river or section of river accessible by roads, with the shoreline mostly undeveloped and unused; or
  (3)Recreational river area. This is a free-flowing river or section of river accessible by roads, with limited development along the shoreline.
