# § 12-5-123. Creation of council; membership; chairperson; meetings; majority vote; quorum; director as secretary; self-governance; reimbursement for expenses; Attorney General to provide legal services

(a) The State Water Well Standards Advisory Council is created. The council shall be composed of the following:
  (1) A member appointed by the Governor from the public at large, who shall not be in any way connected with the well drilling industry. The member representing the public on July 1, 2001, shall continue to serve in this position from July 1, 2001, to June 30, 2002;
  (2) A member appointed by the commissioner of natural resources. The member appointed by the commissioner of natural resources serving on July 1, 2001, shall continue to serve in this position until June 30, 2002;
  (3) A member appointed by the Governor representing the farming industry. The member representing the farming industry on July 1, 2001, shall continue to serve in this position until June 30, 2003;
  (4) Four members representing the water well drilling industry appointed by the Governor who shall be licensed and practicing drillers. The members who are water well drillers serving on July 1, 2001, shall continue to serve in these positions until June 30, 2002, at which time the Governor shall appoint two members to terms ending June 30, 2003; one member to a term ending June 30, 2004; and one member to a term of office ending June 30, 2005. The members serving on such date shall be eligible for reappointment; and
  (5) A member appointed by the Governor who is a registered professional geologist or registered professional engineer. The member who is a registered professional geologist or registered professional engineer serving on July 1, 2001, shall continue to serve in such position until June 30, 2004.
(b) The successor to each member appointed pursuant to the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be appointed for a term of three years, and the Governor shall fill any vacancy in the council, except for the member appointed by the commissioner of natural resources, with each successor appointed in the same manner as his predecessor.
(c) At the first meeting of the council held in each calendar year, the council shall elect a chairperson who shall serve for one year, adopt rules of procedure, and develop a work plan. The chairperson may be reelected in subsequent years by the council. A vacancy in the position of chairperson shall be filled by vote of the council.
(d) The council shall meet at such times and at such designated places as it may determine but shall hold at least three regular meetings each year. An affirmative vote of a majority of the members present shall be necessary to transact business. Four members shall constitute a quorum.
(e) The director or his designee shall be the secretary of the council and, in addition to his duties as prescribed by law, shall perform such other administrative duties as may be prescribed by the council. Except as provided in this part, the council shall provide by rule and regulation for its own government. Members of the council shall serve without compensation but shall receive the same expense allowance as that received by members of the General Assembly and the same mileage allowance for the use of a personal car as that received by all other state officials and employees or a travel allowance of actual transportation cost if traveling by public carrier within the state. Any councilmember shall also be reimbursed for any conference or meeting registration fee incurred in the performance of his duties as a councilmember. For each day's service outside of the state as a councilmember, such member shall receive actual expenses as an expense allowance as well as the same mileage allowance for the use of a personal car as that received by other state officials and employees or a travel allowance of actual transportation cost if traveling by public carrier or by rental motor vehicle. Expense vouchers submitted by members of the council are subject to approval of the director or his designee.
(f) The Attorney General shall provide legal services for the council.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 180, § 2, eff. 7/1/2001.
