# § 12-5-575. Board created; appointments; vacancies; terms

(a) There is established for the management of the business and affairs of the district a Metropolitan North Georgia Water Planning District Governing Board to consist of:
  (1) The chairperson of the county commission or the chief executive officer of each county in the district area having a population of 200,000 or more according to the 2000 United States decennial census or any future such census;
  (2) The mayor of each municipality in the district area having a population of 200,000 or more according to the 2000 United States decennial census or any future such census;
  (3) A member appointed from each county in the district area not represented pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection by a caucus of the county commissioners together with the mayors of municipalities, the majority of the population of which reside within such county and which have water withdrawal permits or waste-water discharge permits, which caucus shall select either one of such mayors or the chairperson of the county commission or chief executive officer of the county; provided, however, that if one or more mayors participate in such selection and said initial appointee is a mayor, the successor must be the chairperson of the county commission or chief executive officer of the county, and if said initial appointment is the chairperson of the county commission or chief executive officer of the county, the successor must be one of such mayors, and the succession shall accordingly alternate in the future;
  (4) Six members to be appointed by the Governor;
  (5) Two members to be appointed by the Lieutenant Governor; and
  (6) Two members to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
(b) Of the initial appointments of the Governor, two shall be for a term of one year, two for a term of two years, and two for a term of three years, and their successors shall serve for terms of three years. Of the initial appointments of the Lieutenant Governor and the Speaker, one shall be for a term of one year and one for a term of three years, and their successors shall serve for terms of three years. The terms of members serving pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be concurrent with their terms of office in their respective counties and municipalities. Of the members initially appointed pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section, one-half, or one more than one-half in the event of an odd number of appointments, shall be selected by lot to serve a two-year term, and the remainder shall serve a three-year term. Their successors shall serve terms of three years. All members of the board shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. At no time shall more than one member of the governing authority or executive branch of any county or municipality serve on the board.
(c) Any vacancy on the board shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment to the vacated position. No vacancy on the board shall impair the right of the quorum of the remaining members then in office to exercise all rights and perform all duties of the board.
(d) The executive committee of the district shall consist of a chairperson, a vice chairperson, a secretary-treasurer, the members serving pursuant to paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section, and such other members as the board may determine are appropriate from time to time.
(e)
  (1) The initial chairperson and vice chairperson of the board shall be appointed by the Governor from among the membership of the board for a term of three years, and thereafter the chairperson and vice chairperson shall be appointed by majority vote of the board for a term of three years.
  (2) As a qualification for office of chairperson, except for the initial chairperson, he or she shall have served at least one year as a member of the board. No chairperson shall serve in that capacity in excess of two consecutive terms.
  (3) The chairperson shall preside at all meetings of the district. He or she shall be the chief executive officer of the district.
  (4) The vice chairperson shall serve in the absence of the chairperson and, in addition, shall assist the chairperson and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned by the board.
  (5) The secretary-treasurer shall be the custodian of the books and records of the district, shall keep the minutes of all meetings, shall be the chief fiscal officer of the district, and shall perform such other duties as may be assigned by the board.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 27, § 1, eff. 5/1/2001.
