# § 12-5-122. Definitions

(1) "Abandoned well" means a well or borehole, the use of which has been permanently discontinued, which is in such a state of disrepair that continued use for obtaining ground water or for other useful purposes is impracticable, or from which ground water for useful purposes is not obtainable.
(2) "Aquifer" means a geologic formation, group of formations, or a part of a formation that is capable of yielding water to a well.
(3) "Borehole" means a hole made into the earth's surface and extending at least 50 feet into the earth or at least ten feet below the water table, whichever is greater, with a drill, auger, or other tool for the purpose of: exploring subsurface strata in search of minerals, engineering or geologic data, water for water supply, blasting purposes, or monitoring.
(4) "Capping" or "cap" means the temporary placing of a watertight seal on the upper terminal of a completed well so that no surface pollutants can enter the well.
(5) "Casing" means an impervious durable pipe placed in a well to prevent the walls from caving and to seal off surface drainage or undesirable water, gas, or other fluids to prevent them from entering the well and includes specifically, but is not limited to, the following:
  (A) "Liner pipe" which shall mean a well casing installed without driving within a protective casing or open drillhole;
  (B) "Protective casing" which shall mean the permanent casing of the well; and
  (C) "Temporary casing" which shall mean a temporary casing placed in soft, sandy, or caving subsurface formations to prevent the hole from caving during drilling.
(6) "Construction" means all acts necessary to construct a well or borehole for any intended purpose or use, including locating and drilling and the installation of pumps and pumping equipment.
(7) "Contaminant" means any physical, chemical, biological, or radiological substance or matter in water, in excess of naturally occurring levels.
(8) "Corehole" means a borehole made into the earth's surface and extending at least 50 feet into the earth or at least ten feet below the water table, whichever is greater, with a hollow drill to sample a cylindrical section of the earth's strata beneath the surface of the land or water.
(9) "Council" means the State Water Well Standards Advisory Council.
(10) "Dewatering well" means any well withdrawing 100,000 gallons of ground water or less on any one day in order to remove ground water from the vicinity of an excavation and which extends at least 50 feet into the earth or at least ten feet below the water table, whichever is greater.
(11) "Director" means the Director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources, State of Georgia, or his designee.
(12) "Division" means the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources, State of Georgia.
(13) "Driller" means any person who engages in drilling or drilling operations and the installation of pumps and pumping equipment. Driller shall not include a person who only installs, services, and repairs pumps and pumping equipment.
(14) "Drilling" or "drilling operation" means creating an excavation, well, borehole, or corehole by coring, boring, jetting, digging, driving, or otherwise constructing for any intended purpose or use, including locating, testing, or withdrawing ground water which is intended or usable as a source of water supply.
(15) "Engineering borehole" means a borehole for which the primary purpose is to collect data for engineering design.
(16) "Filled, sealed, and plugged" means the placing of impervious material when appropriate in the well or borehole to prevent pollutants from entering the subsurface strata or water-bearing formations from the surface, to conserve the aquifer yield or artesian head, or to eliminate physical hazards.
(17) "Geologic borehole" means any borehole not regulated under the authority of Part 2 of Article 2 of Chapter 4 of this title for which the primary purpose is to collect data for geologic, geophysical, or mineral resource evaluations.
(17.1) "Geothermal borehole" means any hole in the earth which is drilled for the purpose of installing piping for heating and air conditioning systems through which water, antifreeze, water mixtures, freon, or other media are circulated to exchange heat with the earth for the purpose of heating or cooling, or both.
(18) "Ground water" means water of underground streams, channels, artesian basins, reservoirs, lakes, and other water under the surface of the earth, whether public or private, natural or artificial, which is contained within, flows through, or borders upon this state or any portion thereof, including those portions of the Atlantic Ocean over which the state has jurisdiction.
(19) "Individual water well" means any well constructed for the purpose of obtaining ground water to supply water appurtenant to a single-family dwelling and intended for domestic use, including, but not limited to, household purposes, farm livestock, or gardens.
(20) "Industrial well" means any well constructed for the purpose of withdrawing 100,000 gallons of ground water or less on any one day for processing or cooling water or for purposes other than drinking water.
(21) "Irrigation well" means any well constructed for the purpose of obtaining ground water to supply irrigation water for agriculture, silviculture, golf courses, fish farms, and land beautification, but excluding single-family irrigation of lawns or gardens.
(22) "Monitoring well" means any well for which the primary purpose is to collect data for hydrologic, geohydrologic, or ground water quality or quantity evaluations.
(23) "Nonpublic water well" means any well constructed as a source of water supply for a water system which provides piped water to the public for human consumption, if such system has less than 15 service connections or regularly serves less than 25 individuals, excluding individual water wells.
(24) "Person" means any individual, partnership, association, trust, firm, corporation, county, municipality, or other entity, including the state and the federal government.
(25) "Pollutant" means dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical wastes, biological materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar dirt, industrial wastes, municipal wastes, agricultural wastes, or any other wastes or substances that do not naturally occur in the aquifer.
(26) "Professional engineer" means a person registered to practice professional engineering in the State of Georgia in accordance with Chapter 15 of Title 43.
(27) "Professional geologist" means a person registered to practice as a geologist in the State of Georgia in accordance with Chapter 19 of Title 43.
(27.1) "Pump contractor" means any person who engages in the business of installing, servicing, or repairing pumps and pumping equipment for water wells but who is not a driller or water well contractor.
(28) "Seismic shot hole" means any borehole in which explosives are detonated for the purpose of seismic investigations.
(29) "Under the direction of a professional geologist or professional engineer" means that a professional geologist or professional engineer has reviewed well or borehole drilling, construction, and abandonment plans or criteria and has provided instructions to the driller as to how the well or borehole is to be drilled, constructed, or abandoned.
(30) "Water table" means, exclusive of perched conditions, the shallowest permanent occurrence of ground water.
(31) "Water well" means any excavation which is cored, bored, drilled, jetted, dug, or otherwise constructed for the purpose of locating, testing, or withdrawing ground water and which is intended or usable as a source of water supply for individual homes, farms, irrigation, industrial processes, public water systems, or nonpublic water systems.
(32) "Water well contractor" means any person engaging in the business of constructing water wells and installing pumps and pumping equipment. Water well contractor shall not include a person who only installs, services, and repairs pumps and pumping equipment.
(33) "Well" means any excavation in which the vertical dimension exceeds the horizontal dimension that is bored, cored, drilled, dug, jetted, or otherwise constructed for the purpose of locating, testing, or withdrawing ground water; or for evaluating, testing, developing, draining, or recharging ground water reservoirs or aquifers; or for the exploration, evaluating, testing, or developing of minerals; or which causes the movement of water from or into any aquifer or subsurface strata; and shall include engineering and geologic boreholes.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 411,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 251, §§ 1, 2, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 180.
