# § 12-5-127. Licensing of water well contractors generally; applications for trainee licenses; violation of Code section

(a) Any person desiring to engage in the business of water well construction in this state shall apply to the council for a license as a water well contractor. All such applications shall be made on forms provided by the division and shall be accompanied by a fee to be prescribed by the council but not exceeding $400.00 per license period.
(b) An applicant for a license as a water well contractor shall be required to have two years' experience working in the water well construction business under a licensed water well contractor and shall be required to pass an examination administered by the council. The examination may be written, oral, or practical work, or any combination of the three. The examination shall relate to the applicant's knowledge of basic ground water, basic well construction, and the general contents of this part.
(c) Satisfactory proof of two years' experience in the water well construction business shall be made by presenting certified affidavits from one or more licensed water well contractors that the applicant has had at least two years of full-time water well construction experience. If the required experience was obtained under two or more licensed water well contractors, then a certified affidavit specifying exact dates of such experience shall be required from each licensed contractor. In lieu of the method described above, an applicant may present other proof satisfactory to the council of two years' experience constructing water wells. The council may require the applicant and the water well contractors who swear to such affidavits to appear before the council to discuss the applicant's qualifications.
(d)
  (1) Any person wishing to engage in the water well construction business shall designate himself or herself or at least one partner, officer, or full-time employee to fulfill the above requirements. If the requirements are satisfactorily fulfilled, the person shall be granted a license under this part, and such license shall cover water well construction activities for which the person is responsible and so licensed. The partners, officers, and employees of the person shall be allowed to engage in the activities covered by the license if the individual who fulfilled the licensing requirements has performed or approved such activities and such approval is posted at the site of the activity on forms to be provided by the council for that purpose. Any such license shall be valid so long as the designated partner, officer, or full-time employee is associated with the licensee or until it otherwise expires.
  (2) The provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection notwithstanding, the water well construction activities of the partners, officers, and employees of the individual who fulfilled the licensing requirements shall continue to be authorized under a license which was valid at the time of the licensee's death for a period of 180 days following the date of such death.
(e) The council, upon application, may issue an appropriate license to any person who holds a similar license in any state, territory, or possession of the United States, if the requirements for the license do not conflict with this part and are of a standard not less than that specified by this part and by rules and regulations promulgated under this part; provided, however, that such other state, territory, or possession grants similar reciprocity to license holders in this state.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require the registration of a person who constructs a well on his or her own or leased property intended for use only in a single-family house which is his or her permanent residence or intended for use only for farming purposes on his or her farm, which well produces less than 25,000 gallons per day, so long as the waters to be produced are not intended for use by the public or in any residence other than his or her own.
(g) The State of Georgia preempts the field of licensing water well contractors. Licenses issued by the council shall authorize bona fide holders thereof to engage in the business authorized by such licenses anywhere within the territorial limits of the state. No provision of this part shall be construed as prohibiting or preventing a municipality or county from fixing, charging, assessing, or collecting any business license fee, registration fee, tax, or gross receipt tax on any profession covered by this part or upon any related profession or anyone engaged in any related profession governed by this part.
(h)
  (1) The council shall be authorized to require persons seeking renewal of licenses under this Code section to complete continuing education of not more than four hours annually. The council may provide courses and shall approve such courses offered by the division, institutions of higher learning, technical colleges, and trade, technical, or professional organizations; provided, however, that continuing education courses or programs related to water well construction or standards provided or conducted by public utilities, equipment manufacturers, or institutions under the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia shall constitute acceptable continuing professional education programs for the purposes of this subsection. Continuing education courses or programs shall be in the areas of safety, environmental protection, ground-water geology, technological advances, business management, or government regulation. Continuing education courses shall be designed for water well contractors having variable educational backgrounds. Courses or programs conducted by manufacturers specifically to promote their products shall not be approved.
  (2) All provisions of this subsection relating to continuing professional education shall be administered by the council.
  (3) The council shall be authorized to waive the continuing education requirements in cases of hardship, disability, or illness or under such other circumstances as the council deems appropriate.
(i) No license shall be granted unless the council specifically authorizes the granting of such license. Staff members of the council may not issue licenses without the specific authorization of the council.
(j) Any person who violates the provisions of this Code section with regard to licensing shall not be eligible to apply for or receive a license under this Code section for a period of two years after being convicted of such violation.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 251, § 4, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 180.
