# § 12-5-30.4. Establishment of water emergency response procedures

(a) Whenever any substance which would endanger the health or property of downstream users of the waters of this state is discharged into such waters, it shall be the duty of any person in charge of such substance to immediately notify the division of the location and nature of the discharge and to immediately take all reasonable steps to prevent injury to the health or property of such downstream users.
(b) The division shall immediately conduct an initial investigation upon receiving any notification made pursuant to this Code section or subsection (a) of Code Section 12-14-3 or by a member of the public who observes an emergency situation or discharge to determine if such notification satisfies the criteria described in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) If the division determines that there is a threat to the health or property of downstream users of the waters of this state, the division shall as soon as possible, but not more than 24 hours after such determination, notify and consult with the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, the appropriate local emergency management agency, the appropriate local county health department, and other appropriate divisions within the department as necessary to determine if it is necessary to prepare and distribute a public notice concerning such threat. Upon notification by the division, the local emergency management agency or the local county health department shall prepare and post such public notice through electronic media and print. Such public notice shall be located at places where the public regularly uses the waters of this state or seeks information about such waters.
(d) The division shall ensure that immediate corrective action is initiated to the maximum extent practicable and as otherwise authorized by this title in order to prevent further danger to the health or property of downstream users.
(e) The division shall establish a protocol, to be reviewed every five years, for coordinated responses to discharges that create emergency situations and shall coordinate with the appropriate emergency response agencies to provide for continual emergency response so as to most efficiently and effectively meet the needs of affected communities. The division may provide training to state and local emergency response agencies to further the purposes of this Code section.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall prevent any local governmental entity from taking any actions within its authority to protect public health.
(g) The department shall promulgate any rules and regulations necessary to implement and administer this Code section on or before December 1, 2014.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 335,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 501,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
