# § 12-5-546.2. Notification in advance of any state funded augmentation projects

(a) As used in this Code section, "permittee" means any person holding a valid permit issued pursuant to Code Section 12-5-31 which provides for the withdrawal of surface water from within the affected areas.
(b) The director shall notify specified permittees downstream of any state funded augmentation project, which shall be operated for the sole purpose of maintaining the minimum stream flows sufficient to protect habitat critical for vulnerable aquatic life within the affected areas. The director may notify specified downstream permittees that, during specified periods of the project's operation for the sole purpose of maintaining such minimum stream flows, the permittee shall let the flow provided by the augmentation project pass his or her point of withdrawal. When specifying those permittees subject to such notification, the director shall also establish, in accordance with the factors that may be considered under paragraph (e) of this Code section, those permittees that shall not be subject to the requirements of this Code section.
(c) Such notification shall be provided in accordance with rules promulgated by the board, shall be based on the best available science, and shall, at a minimum, inform the permittees that the upstream project is delivering augmented flows for the sole purpose of maintaining the minimum stream flows sufficient to protect habitat critical for vulnerable aquatic life within the affected areas.
(d) The director's notification shall contain notice of opportunity for a hearing and shall be served by certified mail, return receipt requested, to the most recent address provided by the permittee. Any permittee to whom such notification is directed shall comply therewith immediately, but shall be afforded a hearing within five business days of the director's receipt of a petition filed by such permittee. Such hearing shall be before an administrative law judge of the Office of State Administrative Hearings and shall be conducted in accordance with subsection (c) of Code Section 12-2-2. Based upon findings adduced at such hearing, the notification shall be modified, reversed, or continued by the director.
(e) In preparing such notification, the director may consider:
  (1) The best available modeling and monitoring data for relevant locations and stream reaches;
  (2) The appropriate duration of protection of augmented flows;
  (3) The distance downstream for which protection of augmented flows is appropriate;
  (4) The degree to which protection of augmented flows will assist in mitigating the effects of droughts, provide ecological or other environmental benefits, and ensure sustainable, long-term access to water resources for existing and future water users; and
  (5) Any other data or information the director deems relevant.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall provide authority for the interbasin transfer of any water.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 12, eff. 3/13/2015.
Added by 2014 Ga. Laws 537,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2014.
