# § 12-5-583. Short-term and long-term plans for waste-water management plan; annual review; public meetings; certification by director

(a) Within one year after May 1, 2001, unless such time period is extended by majority vote of the board, the district shall develop a short-term plan to ease immediate waste-water capacity constraints and to reduce the need for sewer tap moratoria.
(b) Within two years after May 1, 2001, unless such time period is extended by majority vote of the board, the district shall develop a long-term waste-water management plan for the district covering a period of time of no less than 20 years. The plan shall be coordinated with and address any existing waste-water planning efforts undertaken by local governments in the district area and plans otherwise developed under this title. After receipt of public comments, the district shall approve the plan which shall meet all standards established by the director, and the plan shall consist of the following minimum elements:
  (1) Identification of anticipated waste-water treatment capacity requirements over the life of the plan;
  (2) Recommended future upgrades and expansions of existing waste-water treatment facilities;
  (3) Measures to maximize efficiency through multijurisdictional approaches to avoid duplication of efforts and unnecessary costs;
  (4) A timetable for phasing out existing plants if appropriate; upgrading or expanding existing plants; and construction of new plants;
  (5) An inspection and maintenance program for sewer collection systems with timetables for any necessary upgrades or replacement of substandard segments of such systems;
  (6) An inspection and maintenance program for septic tanks in critical areas and recommendations for effective management of decentralized waste-water systems;
  (7) Identification of appropriate opportunities for gray-water reuse or the implementation of other technologies to increase waste-water treatment capacity or efficiency;
  (8) Education and public awareness measures regarding waste-water management; and
  (9) Establishment of short-term and long-term goals to be accomplished by the plan and measures for the assessment of progress in accomplishing such goals and plan.
(c) The district shall review the waste-water management plan developed under subsection (b) of this Code section and its implementation annually to determine whether there is a need to update such plan and shall report to the director the progress of implementation of its goals, and in any case the district shall prepare an updated waste-water management plan no less frequently than every five years after the director's approval of the initial plan.
(d) The district shall hold public meetings concerning any plan or updated plan developed by the district under this Code section and shall publish in print or electronically for public notice and comment any proposed approval, disapproval, or conditional approval of any such plan.
(e)
  (1) Local governments within the district shall implement the provisions of the district plans that apply to them. Should any jurisdiction fail to do so, the director may exercise his or her powers pursuant to this chapter.
  (2) Upon the district's approval of the plan, the director may modify all existing permits under Code Sections 12-5-29, 12-5-30, 12-5-31, 12-5-96, 12-5-97, and 12-5-179 to make them consistent with the plan. The director may include as a condition in any issued, modified, or renewed permit to any local government under Code Section 12-5-29, 12-5-30, 12-5-31, 12-5-96, 12-5-97, or 12-5-179 the applicable contents of the district plan.
  (3) The director shall not approve any application by a local government in the district to issue, modify, or renew a permit under Code Section 12-5-29, 12-5-30, 12-5-31, 12-5-96, 12-5-97, or 12-5-179, if such permit would allow an increase in the water withdrawal, public water system capacity, or waste-water treatment system capacity of such local government, unless such local government is in compliance with the applicable provisions of the plan or the director certifies that such local government is making good faith efforts to come into compliance.
  (4) Any local government that fails to adopt and implement the applicable plans developed by the district under this Code section shall be ineligible for state grants or loans for waste-water related projects determined by the director to be inconsistent with the terms of such plan. The determination of the director may be appealed by the local government to the board, whose decision by majority vote shall be final.
(f) The waste-water management plan shall be approved by the district only after certification by the director that the proposed plan is consistent with the standards established by the director for such plan.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 12, eff. 4/18/2002.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 27, §1, eff. 5/1/2001.
