# § 12-5-235. Shore Protection Committee

(a) There is created the Shore Protection Committee within the department. The committee shall be composed of five members, including the commissioner of natural resources and four people selected by the board. Each of three persons selected by the board shall be a resident of Camden, Glynn, McIntosh, Liberty, Bryan, or Chatham County. Three members of the committee shall constitute a quorum. The members of the committee shall be entitled to and shall be reimbursed from moneys appropriated to the department for their expenses, such as mileage and per diem, as set by the board.
(b) The committee shall have the authority to issue orders and to grant, suspend, revoke, modify, extend, condition, or deny permits as provided in this part. Permits may, at the committee's discretion, be revoked, suspended, or modified upon a finding that the permittee is not in compliance with permit conditions or that the permittee is in violation of any rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to this part.
(c) The chairperson of the committee, upon application by the permittee, may issue renewal of a permit previously granted by the committee. Such action must be based upon recommendations of staff, past committee actions, and the results of public comments. The chairperson may refer the request for renewal to the committee to decide on renewals that, in his or her judgment, should receive broader consideration. A committee member may choose to have the full committee decide on renewals that the member feels should receive broader consideration.
(d) Any permit for minor activity may be issued by the commissioner based on the recommendations of staff, past committee actions, and the results of public comments. The commissioner may refer the application to the committee to decide on permits for minor activities that, in his or her judgment, should receive broader consideration. A committee member may choose to have the full committee decide on permit applications for minor activities that the member feels should receive broader consideration.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 152,§ 3, eff. 12/31/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 70,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 490, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
