# § 12-5-453. Local regulation of land in drainage basins; enforcement where local regulation inadequate; failure of governing authority to meet requirements

(a) On or before January 1, 1984, or March 1, 1999, with respect to land brought within the stream corridor on July 1, 1998, each governing authority shall adopt ordinances or regulations governing use of all land which is in the drainage basin of any tributary. Such regulations and ordinances shall, at a minimum, include the following:
  (1) Buffer areas of adequate width as determined by local governing authorities along all flowing streams in the drainage basin of any tributary, in which areas there will be no land-disturbing activity; and
  (2) Soil erosion and sediment control regulations consistent with Chapter 7 of this title, the "Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975." Requirements of the plan, other than those requirements consistent with Chapter 7 of this title, shall not apply in the drainage basin of any tributary outside the stream corridor.
(b) If the governing authority has failed to adopt and enforce buffer area and erosion and sediment control ordinances or regulations which effectively control erosion and sedimentation in a tributary, the commission shall give written notice to the governing authority of its intent to request the director to undertake enforcement of erosion and sediment control regulations in the drainage basin of such tributary. If, after such notice from the commission, the governing authority fails to demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the commission, its intent and ability to enforce buffer area and erosion and sediment control ordinances or regulations in the drainage basin of such tributary, the commission shall request the director to assume enforcement of erosion and sediment control regulations in the drainage basin of such tributary.
(c) Upon notification by the commission of a governing authority's failure to adopt and enforce buffer area and erosion and sediment control ordinances or regulations in the drainage basin of a tributary or upon a determination by the director, after consultation with the commission, that a governing authority has failed to adopt and enforce buffer area and erosion and sediment control ordinances or regulations in the drainage basin of a tributary, the director may revoke the certification of a governing authority as an issuing authority for permits required by Chapter 7 of this title, known as the "Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975," for the land within the drainage basin of such tributary.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 436,§ 25, eff. 7/1/2009.
