# § 12-5-4.1. Adoption of minimum standards and best practices for improving efficiency and effectiveness of water use; requirements

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Division" means the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
  (2) "Public water system" means a system for the provision to the public of piped water for human consumption, if such system regularly serves at least 3,300 individuals. Such term includes but is not limited to any collection, treatment, storage, and distribution facilities under the control of the operator of such system and used primarily in connection with such system and any collection or pretreatment storage facilities not under such control which are used primarily in connection with such system.
(b) The Board of Natural Resources shall by January 1, 2011, adopt rules for the minimum standards and best practices for monitoring and improving the efficiency and effectiveness of water use by public water systems to improve water conservation. The best practices program shall include without limitation:
  (1) The establishment of an infrastructure leakage index;
  (2) The establishment of categories of public water systems based on geographical size and service population;
  (3) A phased-in approach requiring public water systems to conduct standardized annual water loss audits according to the International Water Association water audit method/standard and to submit those audits to the division;
  (4) A phased-in approach requiring public water systems to implement water loss detection programs; and
  (5) The development of a technical assistance program to provide guidance to public water systems for water loss detection programs, to include without limitation metering techniques, utilization of portable and permanent water loss detection devices, and funding when available. By January 1, 2012, public water systems serving at least 10,000 individuals shall have conducted a water loss audit pursuant to the minimum standards and best practices adopted by the Board of Natural Resources. By January 1, 2013, all other public water systems shall have conducted a water loss audit pursuant to the minimum standards and best practices adopted by the Board of Natural Resources. Audit results shall be submitted to the division within 60 days of completion and shall be posted on the division's website in a timely manner after receipt by the division.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 542,§ 3, eff. 6/4/2010.
