# § 12-5-203. Technical panel; members; preliminary scope of work statement; modifications

(a) There shall be a technical panel as provided in this subsection. The Governor, the President of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall each appoint one member of the technical panel, each of whom shall be the director of a public water system located within the district. The Governor, the President of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives or such officers' designees shall also serve on the technical panel.
(b) The authority and the technical panel shall use the provisions of Code Section 12-5-202 as a basis fully to define the water shortage scenarios to be evaluated in the emergency plan. The authority and the technical panel shall also prepare a preliminary scope of work statement for the plan consistent with the defined scenarios and Code Section 12-5-202.
(c) The authority shall submit by July 15, 2010, the preliminary scope of work statement to the Governor, the President of the Senate, and the Speaker of the House of Representatives to receive authorization to issue a request for proposals based on such preliminary scope of work statement not later than September 1, 2010.
(d) The authority shall modify the preliminary scope of work statement or the preparation of the emergency plan if specific water allocations are provided by final federal courts rulings, state compacts, or other mechanisms. The plan shall be based on such allocations.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 397,§ 2, eff. 6/4/2010.
