# § 12-5-321. Legislative findings

The General Assembly finds and declares that the coastal area of Georgia comprises a vital natural resource system. The General Assembly recognizes that the coastal area of Georgia is the habitat of many species of marine life and wildlife which must have clean waters and suitable habitat to survive. The General Assembly further finds that intensive research has revealed that activities affecting the coastal area may degrade water quality or damage coastal resources if not properly planned and managed. The General Assembly further finds that the coastal area provides a natural recreation resource which has become vitally linked to the economy of Georgia's coast and to that of the entire state. The General Assembly further finds that resources within this coastal area are costly, if not impossible, to reconstruct or rehabilitate once adversely affected by human related activities and it is important to conserve these resources for the present and future use and enjoyment of all citizens and visitors to this state. The General Assembly further finds that the coastal area is a vital area of the state and that it is essential to maintain the health, safety, and welfare of all the citizens of the state. Therefore, the General Assembly declares that the management of the coastal area has more than local significance, is of equal importance to all citizens of the state, is of state-wide concern, and consequently is properly a matter for coordinated regulation under the police power of the state. The General Assembly further finds and declares that activities and structures in the coastal area must be regulated to ensure that the values and functions of coastal waters and natural habitats are not impaired and to fulfill the responsibilities of each generation as public trustees of the coastal waters and habitats for succeeding generations.
