# § 33-66-6. [Repealed Effective 1/1/2030] Data analysis; initial report

(a) The Commissioner shall analyze the data submitted pursuant to this chapter and make certain determinations regarding the assessment of tort related risks by insurers, including but not limited to:
  (1) The degree to which tort related risk is reflected in insurance premiums;
  (2) The specific aspects of tort related risk that have the largest monetary impact on insurance premiums; and
  (3) The potential impact of any changes to tort law on the portion of insurance premiums that reflect tort related risk.
(b) The Commissioner shall generate an initial report utilizing the items listed in subsection (a) of this Code Section and any data or information necessary to support such determinations. The report may analyze any data in the Commissioner's possession, any data gathered pursuant to this chapter, and any other data submitted to the Commissioner. The Commissioner may summarize, aggregate, or otherwise make anonymous the documents, materials, or other information in the possession or control of the department so that any information or data contained in the report shall not be attributable to any specific insurer.
(c) No later than November 1, 2024, the Commissioner shall submit the initial report provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section to the Governor's Office, the House Committee on Insurance, and the Senate Insurance and Labor Committee.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 407,§ 3, eff. 4/22/2024.
