# § 33-66-5. [Repealed Effective 1/1/2030] Data requests; timing; limitations

(a) No later than July 1, 2024, and as often as necessary through July 1, 2029, the Commissioner shall request data from insurers, licensed rating organizations, and state agencies for the Commissioner to make findings regarding the impact of tort lawsuits and the assessment of tort related risks. The Commissioner may allow for the confidential submission of such requested data via electronic means.
(b) The data requested from insurers as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be limited to data in existence on or after January 1, 2019, and shall include but not be limited to:
  (1) The number of tort lawsuits filed against the insured of an insurer;
  (2) The total attorneys' fees and court costs for such tort lawsuits; and
  (3) The total value of the incurred claims from any tort lawsuits.
(c) The Commissioner shall request from any relevant insurer a supplemental actuarial analysis of the risks due to tort litigation that were considered in issuing a statement of actuarial opinion either at the time of submission of the statement of actuarial opinion or within one year following such submission.
(d) The Commissioner shall request that any filings with the department made by any relevant insurer reflect the impact indicated, if any, due to the effect of the applicable provisions of any tort reform legislation enacted after July 1, 2024, in a manner prescribed by the Commissioner.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 407,§ 3, eff. 4/22/2024.
