# § 45-1-6. Gifts to employees by vendors; disclosure; reports

(a) As used in this chapter, the term:
  (1) "Commission" means the State Ethics Commission created under Code Section 21-5-4.
  (2) "Gift" means a gratuity, subscription, membership, trip, meal, loan, extension of credit, forgiveness of debt, advance or deposit of money, or anything of value.
  (3) "Person" means an individual, partnership, committee, association, corporation, labor organization, or any other organization or group of persons.
  (4) "Public employee" means every person employed by the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of state government or any department, board, bureau, agency, commission, or authority thereof. This shall not include elected officials.
  (5) "Vendor" means any person who sells to or contracts with any branch of state government or any department, board, bureau, agency, or commission thereof for the provision of any goods or services.
(b) Any vendor who, either directly or through another person, makes a gift or gifts to one or more public employees exceeding in the aggregate $250.00 in value during any calendar year shall file a disclosure report with the commission in the form specified by the commission listing the amount and date of receipt, the name and mailing address of any vendor making the gift, and the name, address, and position of each public employee receiving such a gift.
(c) Each disclosure report required by subsection (b) of this Code section shall be filed with the commission not later than February 1 of each year and shall cover the preceding calendar year.
(d) A report required by this Code section shall be verified by the oath or affirmation of the person filing such report or statement taken before an officer authorized to administer oaths. Each report required in a calendar year shall contain cumulative totals of all gifts which have been made or received and which are required to be reported.
(e) In addition to other penalties provided under this Code section, a filing fee of $50.00 shall be imposed for each report that is filed late. In addition, a filing fee of $25.00 shall be imposed on the fifteenth day after the due date if the report has still not been filed.
(f) The commission is vested with the same powers with respect to this Code section as enumerated in Code Section 21-5-6.
(g) Venue for prosecution of civil violations of this Code section or for any other action by or on behalf of the commission shall be in the county of residence of the accused person at the time of the alleged violation or action.
(h) Any person who knowingly fails to comply with or knowingly violates this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 340,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 680,§ 26, eff. 1/10/2011.
