# § 45-1-8. Payroll deduction for liability insurance protection

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Correctional officer" means any person who is authorized to exercise the power of arrest and who is employed or appointed by the Department of Corrections or the State Board of Pardons and Paroles.
  (2) "Emergency health worker" means hospital emergency department personnel and emergency medical services personnel.
  (3) "ERISA" means the federal Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, 29 U.S.C. Section 1001, et seq.
  (4) "Firefighter" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 25-4-2.
  (5) "Highway emergency response operator" means a person employed by the Department of Transportation who operates a towing or recovery vehicle or highway maintenance vehicle.
  (6) "Jail officer" means any person who is employed or appointed by a county or municipality and who has the responsibility of supervising inmates confined in a municipal or county detention facility.
  (7) "Juvenile correctional officer" means any person employed or appointed by the Department of Juvenile Justice whose primary responsibility is the supervision and control of youth confined in its programs and facilities.
  (8) "Probation officer" means a community supervision officer, county or Department of Juvenile Justice juvenile probation officer, or probation officer serving pursuant to Article 6 of Chapter 8 of Title 42.
  (9) "Public safety employee" means a peace officer, correctional officer, emergency health worker, firefighter, highway emergency response operator, jail officer, juvenile correctional officer, or probation officer.
(b) The State of Georgia and the governing authority of each county and municipality that currently provides electronic payroll deposits to employees shall also provide payroll deductions to any full-time or part-time public safety employee who requests such a deduction for the purpose of purchasing insurance that provides such public safety employee with legal representation during all civil, administrative, or criminal actions caused as a result of his or her role or responsibilities as a public safety employee. Such deduction shall only be used to pay the premiums on insurance plans that are compliant within current ERISA standards and any dues or fees required by any professional organization that owns and provides such ERISA compliant product as a benefit of membership.

## History

Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 263,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
