# § 50-8-63. Disclosure of employee's business transactions with local government; exempt transactions; disclosure of loan transactions by member of board or advisory committee; penalties

(a) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, any employee, any member of such employee's family, or any business in which such employee or any member of his family has a substantial interest, individually or collectively, who transacts business with any local government shall disclose such transactions annually. Such disclosures shall be submitted to the board of directors of the commission and to the commissioner prior to January 31 each year on such forms as are prescribed by the commissioner. At a minimum, the disclosures shall include an itemized list of the previous year's transactions with the dollar amount of each transaction reported and totaled. Such disclosure statements shall be public records.
(b) The requirement to disclose certain transactions as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not apply to any transaction when the amount of a single transaction does not exceed $100.00 and when the aggregate of all transactions does not exceed $2,000.00 per calendar year.
(c) Any member of a board or advisory committee of the commission or nonprofit corporation who plays a role in determining loan transactions or any member of such person's family who obtains a loan or loan packaging services from such commission or nonprofit corporation shall disclose such transaction at the time of application for such loan or loan packaging services to the board of directors of the commission and to the commissioner. Such disclosure statements shall be public records.
(d) Any person who fails to file a disclosure statement as required in subsections (a) and (c) of this Code section shall be subject to the penalties provided for in Code Section 50-8-66.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 50, eff. 7/1/2009.
