# § 50-8-301. Creation; coordination; meetings; role; regulations

(a) The Georgia Geospatial Advisory Council shall be created. All data, reports, and other documents of the former Georgia Geospatial Advisory Council as such existed under the Department of Natural Resources prior to June 30, 2017, shall be transferred to the department for use by such newly created council.
(b) The department shall coordinate the recreation of the Georgia Geospatial Advisory Council. The commissioner, or his or her designee, shall coordinate with state executive branch departments and agencies to appoint members of the council, which may consist of representatives from state departments and agencies, local governments, universities, regional commissions, or any other entity the department determines to be a stakeholder active in the development or consumption of reliable geospatial resources.
(c) The council shall meet initially upon the call of the commissioner and shall elect a chairperson at the initial meeting. Subsequent meetings shall be called by the chairperson. The members of the council shall serve at the pleasure of the commissioner. Councilmembers shall receive no compensation for their services as members of the council, but their travel expenses, if any, related to the performance of their official duties may be covered by the departments, agencies, or organizations they represent.
(d) The council shall make recommendations for:
  (1) Utilizing geospatial capabilities in Georgia to meet any federal notification requirements;
  (2) Moving forward to achieve reliable governmental data interoperability and enhanced delivery of services to Georgia citizens through the geospatial approach; and
  (3) Any other aspects of data collection, information optimization, and innovation determined by the council to be necessary for the advancement of geospatial technology.
(e) The council may closely coordinate its efforts with the Georgia Technology Authority to ensure compliance with all state and federal standards, contracts, and procedures.
(f) Any reports generated by the council shall be made available on an annual basis by the department to the members of the General Assembly, all departments and agencies of state government, all county and municipal governments, and members of the general public by posting such reports on the appropriate state agency websites.
(g) The department shall promulgate such rules and regulations as may be reasonable and necessary for the administration of this article.

## History

Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 65,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
