# § 50-8-9. Contracts with public and private entities or individuals

(a) The department shall perform the duties, responsibilities, and functions and may exercise the power and authority described in this Code section. The department shall have the power to enter into contracts with local governments, school districts, state agencies, state authorities, and other public and private entities or individuals for any purpose necessary or incidental to carrying out or performing the duties, responsibilities, or functions of the department or exercising the power and authority of the department. No such contract shall constitute a donation or gratuity or the forgiveness of any debt or obligation owing to the public. No such contract shall constitute or be intended to constitute security for bonds or other obligations issued by any public agency, public corporation, or authority. No such contract shall constitute a pledge or loan of the credit of the state to any individual, company, corporation, or association, and the state, through the department, shall not become a joint owner or stockholder in or with any individual, company, association, or corporation.
(b) The power and authority of the department under this Code section to enter into contracts shall be limited to entering into contracts permitted under the Constitution and laws of the state and as specified in this Code section but shall not otherwise be limited.
(c) The department shall have the power to enter into contracts with the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority for any purpose necessary or incidental in assisting the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority in carrying out or performing its duties, responsibilities, and functions; provided, however, all such assistance shall be performed on behalf of and pursuant to the lawful purposes of the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority and not on behalf of the department; and provided, further, such assistance shall not include the authorization of the issuance of any bonds or other indebtedness of the authority. The department may undertake joint or complementary programs with the Georgia Housing and Finance Authority, including the provision for joint or complementary services, within the scope of their respective powers.
(d) Reserved.
(e) The department shall have the power to enter into contracts with the OneGeorgia Authority for any purpose necessary or incidental in assisting the OneGeorgia Authority in carrying out or performing its duties, responsibilities, and functions; provided, however, that all such assistance shall be performed on behalf of and pursuant to the lawful purposes of the OneGeorgia Authority and not on behalf of the department; and provided, further, that such assistance shall not include the authorization of the issuance of any bonds or other indebtedness of the authority. The department may undertake joint or complementary programs with the OneGeorgia Authority, including the provision for joint or complementary services, within the scope of their respective powers.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 58,§ 5, eff. 4/26/2005.
