# § 50-8-240. Creation; members; vacancies; quorum

(a) There is created within the Department of Community Affairs the Martin Luther King, Jr., Advisory Council.
(b) The council shall consist of nine members as follows:
  (1) The commissioner of community affairs or his or her designee;
  (2) Six members to be appointed by the Governor, two of whom shall be between the ages of 18 and 22 years;
  (3) One member to be appointed by the President of the Senate; and
  (4) One member to be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
(c) Members shall serve four-year terms. No member of the council shall serve more than two consecutive terms.
(d) Vacancies in the membership of the council shall be filled for the balance of the unexpired term by the appointing authority.
(e) The council shall select annually a chairperson from among its membership.
(f) Members of the council shall be subject to removal from office by the appointing authority when the actions or condition of a member shall be considered as good cause for removal.
(g) A majority of the council shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(h) Members of the council shall serve without compensation but, to the extent moneys are received from voluntary contributions through a not for profit corporation, shall be eligible to receive reimbursement for mileage and other expenses actually incurred in performance of their duties in accordance with the rates and standards for reimbursement of state employees.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 50, eff. 5/1/2012.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 63,§ 1, eff. 5/9/2011.
