# § 50-8-60. Definitions

(1) "Business" means any corporation, partnership, proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, self-employed individual, trust, or other legal entity.
(2) "Commission" means a regional commission established pursuant to Article 2 of this chapter.
(3) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of community affairs.
(4) "Council member" means any member of the council of a regional commission established under Article 2 of this chapter.
(5) "Employee" means any person who, pursuant to a written or oral contract, is employed by a regional commission or by a nonprofit corporation.
(6) "Family" means spouse and dependents.
(7) "Nonprofit corporation" means any nonprofit corporation created or controlled by a regional commission as expressly authorized by law, or as administratively authorized pursuant to subsection (f) of Code Section 50-8-35.
(8) "Person" means any person, corporation, partnership, proprietorship, firm, enterprise, franchise, association, organization, or other legal entity.
(9) "Substantial interest" means the direct or indirect ownership of more than 25 percent of the assets or stock of any business.
(10) "Transact business" or "transact any business" means to sell or lease any personal property, real property, or services on behalf of oneself or on behalf of any third party as an agent, broker, dealer, or representative; to purchase surplus real or personal property on behalf of oneself or on behalf of any third party as an agent, broker, dealer, or representative; or to obtain loans or loan packaging services on behalf of oneself or any third party as an agent, dealer, broker, or representative.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 436,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2009.
