# § 50-8-212. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Board of Community Affairs.
(2) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of community affairs.
(3) "Comprehensive plan" means any plan by a county or municipality relating to the facilities needs of such county or municipality proposed or prepared pursuant to the minimum standards and procedures for preparation of comprehensive plans and for implementation of comprehensive plans established by the department in accordance with Article 1 of this chapter.
(4) "Conflict" means any conflict, dispute, or inconsistency relating to a local plan or to the priority of the facilities needs in a local plan arising within a facilities development committee created pursuant to this article.
(5) "Department" means the Department of Community Affairs.
(6) "Facility" or "facilities" means a capital improvement designed to assist the less developed county in economic development including, but not limited to, the areas of transportation networks; water supply and treatment, sewer, waste-water treatment, and solid waste disposal facilities; public safety, fire protection, and emergency medical services; recreational, general government, and educational facilities; and libraries and other cultural structures.
(7) "Less developed county" means any county designated pursuant to Code Section 50-8-213. Any area so designated shall, for the purposes of this article, be considered a less developed area for a period of not less than ten years.
(8) "Local plan" means the plan of any less developed county and the municipalities lying therein which plan consolidates and prioritizes the facilities needs contained in the various comprehensive plans of the less developed county and the municipalities lying therein.
(9) "Regional commission" means a regional commission created pursuant to the provisions of Article 2 of this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 436,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2009.
