# § 50-8-30. Legislative findings; purpose and construction of article

The local governments of the State of Georgia are of vital importance to the state and its citizens. The state has an essential public interest in promoting, developing, sustaining, and assisting local governments. The natural resources, environment, and vital areas of the state are also of vital importance to the state and its citizens. The state has an essential public interest in establishing minimum standards for land use in order to protect and preserve its natural resources, environment, and vital areas. Coordinated and comprehensive planning by local governments, under direction from the state, is necessary in order to serve these essential public interests of the state. The purpose of this article is to provide for regional commissions to develop, promote, and assist in establishing coordinated and comprehensive land use, environmental, transportation, and historic preservation planning in the state, to assist local governments to participate in an orderly process for coordinated and comprehensive planning, to assist local governments to prepare and implement comprehensive plans which will develop and promote the essential public interests of the state and its citizens and advance positive governmental relations among the state, regional, and local levels, and to prepare and implement comprehensive regional plans which will develop and promote the essential public interests of the state and its citizens. This article shall be construed liberally to achieve its purpose. This article is enacted pursuant to the authority granted the General Assembly in the Constitution of the State of Georgia, including, but not limited to, the authority provided in Article III, Section VI, Paragraphs I and II(a)(1) and Article IX, Section II, Paragraphs III and IV.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 467,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 436,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2009.
