# § 50-8-95. Submission of public entity area plans; comment and recommendation procedure

(a) A commission shall review every area plan prepared for use within the area by a public authority, public commission, public board, public utility, or public agency. Each such area plan shall be submitted to the commission by the public authority, public commission, public board, public utility, or public agency preparing the plan before any action is taken to put the plan into effect.
(b) No action shall be taken to put any area plan into effect until 60 days have elapsed after its submission to the commission or until the commission finds and notifies the submitting public authority, public commission, public board, public utility, or public agency that the area plan is not inconsistent with its development guides, whichever first occurs. If, within 60 days after the date of submission, the commission finds that an area plan is inconsistent with its development guides, the commission may recommend modification of the area plan or such part thereof in such a manner as to be consistent with its development guides.
(c) A submitting public authority, public commission, public board, public utility, or public agency may request reconsideration of any recommendation of the commission at a public hearing. Such public hearing shall be held by the commission within 30 days of such request. Notice stating the time and place of a public hearing shall be mailed, at least five days prior to the hearing, to the submitting public authority, public commission, public board, public utility, or public agency; all affected municipalities and counties within the area; appropriate state regulatory boards and agencies; and members of the commission.
(d) Within 30 days of such public hearing, the commission shall make its recommendations known to the submitting authority, commission, board, utility, or agency, all affected municipalities and counties in the area, and appropriate state regulatory boards and agencies.
