# § 50-8-170. Definitions; facilitating E-85 projects; implementation of grant program

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Board" means the Board of Community Affairs.
  (2) "Department" means the Department of Community Affairs.
  (3) "E-85 gasoline" means a blend of ethanol and gasoline that by volume consists of not less than 70 percent nor more than 85 percent ethanol which meets the American Society of Testing and Materials (ASTM) D5798-99 Standard Specification for Fuel Ethanol for Automotive Spark-Ignition Engines.
  (4) "E-85 project" means installing, replacing, or converting motor fuel storage and dispensing equipment at sites where motor fuel is stored and dispensed for retail sale such that the installed, replacement, or converted equipment shall be used exclusively for storing and dispensing E-85 gasoline for retail sale for a period of not less than five consecutive years.
  (5) "Gasoline" has the meaning provided by Code Section 48-9-2.
  (6) "Motor fuel" has the meaning provided by Code Section 48-9-2.
  (7) "Motor fuel storage and dispensing equipment" means tanks, pumps, dispensers, pipes, hoses, tubes, lines, fittings, valves, filters, seals, covers, and other associated equipment used in storing and dispensing motor fuel for retail sale.
  (8) "Retail sale" means the sale for consumption, and not for resale, at a retail outlet serving the motoring public.
(b) The General Assembly finds and declares that facilitating E-85 projects through a program established by the department would return a substantial benefit to the state by promoting investment of private capital to provide improved air quality in this state through reduction of combustion of gasoline in motor vehicles; aid compliance with federal air quality standards; promote the use of alternative domestic fuels that reduce dependence on foreign petroleum supplies; and enable increased availability of motor fuels crucial to the state's economy, welfare, and public safety, which may be especially critical in times of natural disaster or international crisis.
(c) The department shall establish a grant program to fund the costs of E-85 projects, subject to availability of funds. The department shall enter into an intergovernmental contract with the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority for purposes of developing, implementing, and administering such program and disbursing any grant moneys thereunder, and the authority is authorized to and shall develop, implement, and administer such program and disburse any grant moneys subject to the following minimum criteria:
  (1) Each grant applicant shall submit a project plan that shall be subject to approval by the Georgia Environmental Finance Authority;
  (2) A grant for any approved project shall not exceed $20,000.00 or 33 1/3 percent of the planned cost of the project, whichever is less, and the applicant shall be required to pay the remainder of the project cost. This paragraph shall not prohibit the applicant from using grants or loans from federal government or private sources to pay for such remainder of the project cost;
  (3) Construction for any approved project shall begin not later than six months after the date of the grant;
  (4) Any approved project shall be completed not later than one year after the date of the grant;
  (5) A project shall be used for the purposes and period required for such project as specified in paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of this Code section; and
  (6) Grant money for a project shall be refunded to the state with interest at the legal rate not later than two years after any failure to meet the requirements of paragraph (3), (4), or (5) of this subsection.
(d) The Georgia Environmental Finance Authority shall adopt such rules and regulations as are reasonable and necessary to implement and administer the grant program established under this Code section.
(e) No grants shall be made under this Code section on or after July 1, 2009.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 634,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 343,§ 1, eff. 5/29/2007.
