# § 50-8-123. Recommendation, approval, funding, and implementation of projects

(a) Each rural economic development area may submit to the Department of Community Affairs proposed economic development projects by January 1, 1989. All proposed projects shall be endorsed by the appropriate local government and shall be evaluated for funding based upon rating and selection criteria prepared by the department in consultation with state agencies, local governments, regional commissions, local development organizations, and others. Such criteria shall be approved by the Board of Community Affairs.
(b) The department shall be authorized to expend funds available to the department under subsection (c) of this Code section to assist in the implementation of projects approved under the procedures outlined in this Code section. In carrying out the intent of this Code section, the Department of Community Affairs, state agencies, regional commissions, local governments, local development organizations, and other agencies or organizations receiving funding from the department are authorized to incorporate other public or private funds into project budgets needed to assure the feasibility of proposed economic development projects authorized under this article.
(c) The funds necessary to carry out the provisions of this Code section shall come from funds appropriated to the Department of Community Affairs specifically for such purpose.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 436,§ 24, eff. 7/1/2009.
