# § 50-8-191. Application for REAP designation; minimum criteria; reciprocal use agreements with adjacent facilities

(a) The initial application for designation as a REAP shall be made to the municipal corporation or county in which the project will be located. Developers of projects to be located completely within the corporate limits shall apply to the municipal corporation; developers of projects to be located completely in the unincorporated part of a county shall apply to the county; developers of projects to be located partially within the corporate limits of a municipality and partially within the unincorporated part of a county and developers of projects to be located in more than one municipal corporation or more than one county shall apply to the county or municipality in which will be located all or a substantial portion of the restaurant and clubhouse improvements.
(b) The application for designation as a REAP shall include:
  (1) A detailed description of the project, including all adjacent facilities which are subject to a reciprocal use agreement, and showing the scope and design;
  (2) A map showing the boundaries of the project and showing the current zoning for each area to be included within the project. If the project includes a reciprocal use agreement with the owner or operator of an adjacent facility, the map shall show and include the adjacent facility; and
  (3) A comprehensive economic and development impact study showing the benefits to be derived from the project.
(c) To comply with the minimum criteria for application for designation as a REAP, a project, in combination with any adjacent facility included by a reciprocal use agreement, shall:
  (1) Be not less than 250 acres in size or be located on or adjacent to a lake of not less than 2,500 acres;
  (2) Where required, have zoning which is appropriate to the planned uses and plans which are consistent with other land use regulations; and
  (3) Provide for at least three of the following criteria:
    (A) Include one or more regulation 18 hole golf courses, with a clubhouse providing food service, or have a commercial boat marina of not less than 300 boat slips, with a facility providing food service;
    (B) Include a full-service restaurant with minimum seating for 75 or more persons;
    (C) Include at least 100 residential units;
    (D) Include at least 200 rooms for overnight stays;
    (E) Include conference facilities with capacity for 150 participants; or
    (F) Be located in a county in which a state operated facility or authority provides services or products, or both, to the general public.
(d) The developer of a project which meets the requirements of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (c) of this Code section and the requirements of two of the criteria set out in paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of this Code section may apply for designation as a REAP.
(e) If the project appears to meet the criteria set out in this Code section, the governing authority of the local government may by resolution approve the project and submission of the project application to the Department of Community Affairs for review and action. Upon a determination by the commissioner that the project will confer substantial benefits upon the local jurisdiction, application of not more than one of the criteria set forth in this Code section or the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this article may be waived.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 507, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
