# § 50-8-34. Councils of regional commissions; membership; powers

(a) The council of each regional commission shall establish policy and direction for the regional commission and shall perform such other functions as may be provided or authorized by law.
(b) The manner of selecting such regional commission councilmembers shall be as prescribed by its bylaws and membership on the council shall be determined as follows:
  (1) The council shall include the chief elected official of each county governing body in the region for a period of time concurrent with each such elected official's term of elected office. If the chief elected official for a county is unable to serve on the council, he or she shall appoint another elected county official. In the case of a consolidated government where there is not another municipality located within the boundaries of the county, a second member of such consolidated government shall be appointed to the board;
  (2) The council shall include one elected official from one municipality in each county in the region for a period of time concurrent with each such elected official's term of elected office;
  (3) The council shall include three residents of the region appointed by the Governor, each for a term of two years. One of such three appointees shall be a member of a school board located within the region or a superintendent of schools within the region, and two of such three appointees shall be nonpublic councilmembers;
  (4) The council shall include one nonpublic councilmember appointed by the Lieutenant Governor for a term of two years and one nonpublic councilmember appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives for a term of two years; and
  (5) The council may include any additional members determined necessary by the commissioner for purposes of complying with laws or regulations, or otherwise. Any such additional members shall be selected by the council and shall serve for a term of one year.
(c) The term of a member shall terminate immediately upon:
  (1) Resignation by a member;
  (2) Death of a member or inability to serve as a member due to medical infirmity or other incapacity; or
  (3) Any change in local elective office or residence of a member which would cause the composition of the council not to comply with the requirements of subsection (b) of this Code section.
(d) Each member of the council shall have one vote. Establishment of a quorum for purposes of the conduct of business shall be determined by the bylaws of the regional commission.
(e) Each regional commission council shall elect from among its councilmembers a chairperson, vice chairperson, and secretary or treasurer who shall serve for a term of two years and until their successors are elected and qualified. Such elections shall be held biennially at a meeting designated for that purpose in the regional commission's bylaws.
(f) Each council shall exercise the following powers:
  (1) The powers, duties, responsibilities, and functions enumerated in Code Section 50-8-35;
  (2) The appointment and removal of a full-time executive director for the regional commission;
  (3) The establishment of such committees as the council shall deem appropriate;
  (4) The adoption of an annual work program for the regional commission;
  (5) The adoption of an annual budget to support the annual work program; and
  (6) The determination of the policies and programs to be implemented and operated by the regional commission as may be provided or authorized by law.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 436,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2009.
