# § 50-8-94. Submission of municipal and county area plans; comment and recommendation procedure

(a) Each municipality within an area and each county within an area shall submit to the commission for comment and recommendation thereon every area plan prepared by such municipality or county. The commission shall maintain all area plans in its files available for inspection by members of the public. No action shall be taken by any municipality or county to put an area plan into effect until 60 days have elapsed after its submission to the commission. Within ten days after submission, the commission shall notify each municipality or county which may be affected by the area plan submitted of the general nature of the plan, the date of submission, and the identity of the submitting municipality or county. Political subdivisions contiguous to the submitting municipality or county shall be notified in all cases by the commission. Within 30 days after receipt of such notice, a municipality or county may present its views to the commission.
(b) If, from its own investigation, from the views presented by a municipality or county affected by the area plans submitted, or otherwise, the commission finds that there are any inconsistencies between the area plan and the area's development guides, the commission may recommend modification of the area plan in such manner as to be consistent with the area's guides.
(c) A submitting municipality or county may request reconsideration of any recommendation by a commission at a public hearing. Such public hearing shall be held by the commission within 30 days after receipt of such request. Notice stating the time and place of each public hearing shall be mailed by the secretary of the commission, at least five days prior to the hearing, to the submitting municipality or county, all affected municipalities and counties, appropriate state regulatory boards and agencies, and members of the commission.
(d) Within 30 days after a public hearing, the commission shall make its recommendations known to the submitting municipality or county, the affected municipalities and counties, and appropriate state regulatory boards and agencies.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall limit or compromise the right of a municipality or county to establish and administer its own zoning laws and regulations.
