# § 50-8-11. Power to take action for furtherance of purposes of department; disposition of revenues

(a) The department shall have the duty, responsibility, power, and authority to take all action necessary to further the purposes of the department, without regard for whether any such duty, responsibility, power, or authority is specifically mentioned in this article or otherwise specifically granted by law. Without limiting the general nature of this Code section:
  (1) The department shall have all duties, responsibilities, power, and authority granted or specified under or pursuant to any other laws of the state and any executive orders issued by the Governor prior to July 1, 1989. To the extent permitted by law, the Governor may, by executive order issued on or after July 1, 1989, authorize the department to take specific action in furtherance of the purposes of the department; and in that event, the department shall take such action;
  (2) The department shall promote and encourage assistance from private entities and individuals in carrying out and performing local government services;
  (3) The department shall assist local governments in developing, promoting, and retaining trade, industry, commerce, and employment opportunities;
  (4) The department may define, identify, and establish criteria or requirements for local governments or others to participate with or to use any local government services;
  (5) The department may receive, use, and spend money received from the state for any of the purposes of the department; and
  (6) The department may investigate potential violations of and enforce the provisions of Code Section 50-7-20 as they relate to the statutory and discretionary incentives authorized by the state pursuant to Code Sections 50-8-8 and 50-34-1 through 50-34-19.
(b) Revenues for all fees and charges imposed or otherwise charged by the department for local government services shall be paid into the general fund of the state treasury, except that charges intended to reimburse expenses incurred by the department shall be used to reimburse the department for such expenses.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 418,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
