# § 50-8-31. Definitions

(1) "Commission" means a regional commission established pursuant to this article, including its predecessor, a "regional development center."
(2) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of community affairs.
(3) "Comprehensive plan" means any plan by a county or municipality covering such county or municipality or any plan by a regional commission covering the commission's region proposed or prepared pursuant to the minimum standards and procedures for preparation of comprehensive plans and for implementation of comprehensive plans, established by the department in accordance with Article 1 of this chapter.
(4) "Conflict" means any conflict, dispute, or inconsistency arising:
  (A) Between or among comprehensive plans for any counties or municipalities, as proposed, prepared, proposed to be implemented, or implemented;
  (B) Between or among comprehensive plans for any counties or municipalities and comprehensive plans for the region which includes such counties or municipalities, as such plans may be proposed, prepared, proposed to be implemented, or implemented;
  (C) With respect to or in connection with any action proposed to be taken or taken by any county, municipality, or other local government relating to or affecting regionally important resources, as defined by the department; or
  (D) With respect to or in connection with any action proposed to be taken or taken by any county, municipality, or other local government relating to or affecting developments of regional impact, as defined by the department.
(5) "Constitution" means the Constitution of the State of Georgia.
(6) "Contract" means any contract, agreement, or other legally binding arrangement.
(7) "Coordinated and comprehensive planning" means planning by counties and municipalities and by regional commissions in accordance with the minimum standards and procedures.
(8) "Council" means the council governing each regional commission.
(9) "County" means any county of this state, including any consolidated governments.
(10) "Department" means the Department of Community Affairs.
(11) "Governing body" means the board of commissioners of a county, sole commissioner of a county, council, commissioners, or other governing authority for a county or municipality.
(12) "Government" means any governmental unit on the federal, state, or local level and any department, agency, or authority of any such governmental unit and shall include all local governments, school districts, state agencies, and state authorities.
(13) "Governmental services" means those necessary services provided by local units of government of this state.
(14) "Human service programs" means any activity authorized by law to be undertaken by the state or by any unit of local government in which it is undertaken, the funds for which program are provided by or through the United States government, an adjoining state, this state, any unit of local government, any agency or instrumentality of the foregoing, or a public or private organization, the purpose of which is to provide assistance to and relieve the special burdens of the young, the indigent, the aged, persons with disabilities, the unemployed, or the ill.
(15) "Local government" means any county, municipality, or other political subdivision of the state; any regional commission; any public agency or public authority, except any state agency or state authority, created under the Constitution or by Act of the General Assembly; and shall include public agencies and public authorities which are created or activated pursuant to the Constitution or Act of the General Assembly or by action of the governing body of any county, municipality, or other political subdivision of the state, separately or in any combination, and shall include any group of counties or municipalities which forms the group to carry out jointly any lawful purposes but shall not include school districts.
(16) "Local plan" means the comprehensive plan for any county or municipality.
(17) "Minimum standards and procedures" means the minimum standards and procedures, including the minimum elements which shall be addressed and included, for preparation of comprehensive plans, for implementation of comprehensive plans, and for participation in the coordinated and comprehensive planning process, as established by the department. Minimum standards and procedures shall include any elements, standards, and procedures for such purposes prescribed by a regional commission for counties and municipalities within its region and approved in advance by the department, in accordance with Article 1 of this chapter.
(18) "Municipality" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 36-30-1.
(19) "Necessary" means necessary, desirable, or appropriate, as determined by the commissioner, unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
(20) "Nonpublic councilmember" means any councilmember who is a resident of a county within the region, who is not an elected or appointed official or employee of any county or municipality, and who is appointed as a nonpublic member for that county pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 50-8-34.
(21) "Nonpublic funds" means the servicing and processing fees which are received by a nonprofit corporation for administering federal or state revolving loan programs or loan packaging programs.
(22) "Qualified local government" means a county or municipality which:
  (A) Has a comprehensive plan in conformity with the minimum standards and procedures;
  (B) Has made its local plan implementation mechanisms consistent with those established in its comprehensive plan and with the minimum standards and procedures; and
  (C) Has not failed to participate in the department's mediation or other means of resolving conflicts in a manner which, in the judgment of the department, reflects a good faith effort to resolve any conflict.
(23) "Region" means the territorial area within the boundaries of operation for any regional commission, as such boundaries shall be established from time to time by the board of the department.
(24) "Regional commission" means a commission established under this article.
(25) "Regional plan" means the comprehensive plan for a region.
(26) "State" means the State of Georgia.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 436,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2009.
