# § 50-8-45. Authorized purchases by Department of Administrative Services; commissioner of administrative services to prescribe regulations and standards

(a) The following provisions apply to all regional commissions. The Department of Administrative Services is authorized to permit regional commissions, on an optional basis, to purchase their motor vehicles, material, equipment, services, and supplies through the state and to issue purchase orders for regional commissions for motor vehicles, material, equipment, services, and supplies.
(b) The regional commissions of this state are authorized to purchase stock from the state's central supply system operated by the Department of Administrative Services.
(c) The regional commissions of this state are authorized to purchase under state-wide term contracts and price agreements established by the Department of Administrative Services.
(d) The regional commissions of this state are authorized to receive directly from the Department of Administrative Services personal property declared surplus by the state.
(e) The commissioner of administrative services shall prescribe regulations necessary for implementation of this Code section and is authorized to establish minimum standards and uniform standard specifications and procedures for the purchase and distribution and disposition of motor vehicles, material, equipment, services, and supplies for the regional commissions of this state.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 436,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2009.
