# § 50-8-3.1. Department to investigate fraud in federal Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program

(a) The department shall have the power and duty to investigate fraud and abuse in the federal Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program administered by the department pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Section 1437, et seq.
(b) When cases of criminal fraud or abuse are discovered or detected, the department shall refer such cases where warranted to the district attorney of the county in which the fraud or abuse occurred for prosecution. Such cases shall be prosecuted as violations of Code Section 16-8-3, relating to theft by deception; Code Section 16-10-20, relating to making false statements or writings; Code Section 16-10-71, relating to false swearing; or any other such criminal provision as the district attorney may deem appropriate under the facts and circumstances of the case.
(c) When a case of fraud or abuse is discovered or detected that is not criminal in nature or when a prosecutor declines to prosecute a case referred by the department under this Code section, the department shall have the authority to settle such case on such terms and conditions as the department finds suitable under the facts and circumstances of the case. In addition, the department shall be authorized to initiate and prosecute civil actions to recoup overpayments or improper payments. The department shall also have the authority to settle such civil cases on such terms and conditions as the department finds suitable under the facts and circumstances of the cases.
(d)
  (1) Prior to the filing of an accusation or the return of an indictment alleging fraud or abuse in the federal Section 8 Housing Choice Voucher Program administered by the department, a prosecuting attorney may defer further prosecution of such accusation or indictment and shall have the authority to enter into a consent agreement with the individual in which such individual admits to any overpayment, consents to disqualification for such period of time as is or may hereafter be provided by law or by the rules and regulations of the department, and agrees to repay, as restitution, such overpayment. Such agreement may provide for a lump sum repayment, installment payments, formula reduction of benefits, or any combination thereof. Such agreement shall toll the running of the statute of limitations for such offense for the period of the agreement. Prior to entering into such consent agreement with an individual, the prosecuting attorney or his or her designee shall advise such person that he or she may consult with an attorney prior to signing such consent agreement. If the individual so requests, he or she shall be afforded a reasonable amount of time, not to exceed 15 days, to engage or consult an attorney. A consent agreement entered into in accordance with this subsection shall not constitute a criminal charge.
  (2) Any such agreement shall be filed in the criminal docket of the court having jurisdiction over the violation without the necessity of the state filing an accusation or an indictment being returned by a grand jury. The clerk shall enter upon the docket "CONSENT AGREEMENT NOT A CRIMINAL CHARGE."
  (3) Upon successful completion of the terms and conditions of the consent agreement, criminal prosecution of the individual for such offense shall be barred; provided, however, that nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit the state from introducing evidence of such offense as a similar transaction in any subsequent prosecution or for the purpose of impeachment. The successful completion of the terms and conditions of the agreement shall not be considered a criminal conviction.
  (4) If the individual fails to comply with the terms of such consent agreement, the state may proceed with a criminal prosecution.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 728,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2006.
