# § 27-3-1.1. Acts prohibited on wildlife management areas

(1) To possess a firearm other than a handgun, as such term is defined in Code Section 16-11-125.1, during a closed hunting season for that area unless such firearm is unloaded and stored in a motor vehicle so as not to be readily accessible or to possess a handgun during a closed hunting season for that area unless such person is a lawful weapons carrier as defined in Code Section 16-11-125.1;
(2) To possess a loaded firearm other than a handgun, as such term is defined in Code Section 16-11-125.1, in a motor vehicle during a legal open hunting season for that area or to possess a loaded handgun in a motor vehicle during a legal open hunting season for that area unless such person is a lawful weapons carrier as defined in Code Section 16-11-125.1;
(3) To be under the influence of drugs, intoxicating liquors, beers, or wines. The determination of whether any person is under the influence of drugs or intoxicating liquors, beers, or wines may be made in accordance with Code Section 27-3-7;
(4) To hunt within 50 yards of any road which receives regular maintenance for the purpose of public vehicular access;
(5) To target practice, except where an authorized shooting range is made available by the department, and then only in a manner consistent with the rules for shooting ranges promulgated by the board;
(6) To drive a vehicle around a closed gate, cable, sign, or other structure or device intended to prevent vehicular access to a road entering onto or within such an area;
(7) To hunt within any posted safety zone;
(8) To camp upon or drive a motor vehicle over any permanent pasture or area planted in crops;
(9) While hunting bears in any such area opened to bear hunting, to kill a female bear with a cub or cubs or to kill a cub weighing less than 75 pounds;
(10) To fail to report if he or she kills a deer, bear, or turkey in the manner specified by the rules of the department for that wildlife management area on the date killed to the state game and fish checking station on the area;
(11) To construct any tree stand or to hunt from any tree stand except a portable or natural tree stand; or
(12) To trap except with a special trapping permit issued by the department.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 596,§ 14, eff. 4/12/2022.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 643,§ 2-13, eff. 6/4/2010.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 9, § 27, eff. 5/14/2003.
