# § 27-3-7. Hunting under the influence of alcohol or drugs

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "hunt" or "hunting" means the act of hunting, as such term is defined in Code Section 27-1-2, while in possession of or using a firearm, bow, or any other device which serves to launch a projectile.
(a.1) As used in this Code section, the term "alcohol concentration" means grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood or grams of alcohol per 210 liters of breath.
(b) A person shall not hunt while:
  (1) Under the influence of alcohol to the extent that it is less safe for the person to hunt;
  (2) Under the influence of any drug to the extent that it is less safe for the person to hunt;
  (3) Under the combined influence of alcohol and any drug to the extent that it is less safe for the person to hunt;
  (4) The person's alcohol concentration is 0.08 grams or more at any time within three hours after such hunting from alcohol consumed before such hunting ended; or
  (5) Subject to the provisions of subsection (c) of this Code section, there is any amount of marijuana or a controlled substance, as defined in Code Section 16-13-21, present in the person's blood or urine, or both, including the metabolites and derivatives of each or both without regard to whether or not any alcohol is present in the person's breath or blood.
(c) The fact that any person charged with violating this Code section is or has been legally entitled to use a drug shall not constitute a defense against any charge of violating this Code section; provided, however, that such person shall not be in violation of this Code section unless such person is rendered incapable of hunting safely as a result of using a drug other than alcohol which such person is legally entitled to use.
(d) Upon the trial of any civil or criminal action or proceeding arising out of acts alleged to have been committed by any person in violation of subsection (b) of this Code section, evidence of the amount of alcohol or drug in a person's blood, urine, breath, or other bodily substance at the alleged time, as determined by a chemical analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath, or other bodily substance shall be admissible. Where such a chemical test is made, the following provisions shall apply:
  (1) Chemical analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath, or other bodily substance, to be considered valid under this Code section, shall have been performed according to methods approved by the Division of Forensic Sciences of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation on a machine which was operated with all the electronic and operating components prescribed by its manufacturer properly attached and in good working order and by an individual possessing a valid permit issued by the Division of Forensic Sciences for this purpose. The Division of Forensic Sciences of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall approve satisfactory techniques or methods to ascertain the qualifications and competence of individuals to conduct analyses and to issue permits, along with requirements for properly operating and maintaining any testing instruments, and to issue certificates certifying that instruments have met those requirements, which certificates and permits shall be subject to termination or revocation at the discretion of the Division of Forensic Sciences;
  (2) When a person undergoes a chemical test at the request of a law enforcement officer, only a physician, registered nurse, laboratory technician, emergency medical technician, or other qualified person may withdraw blood for the purpose of determining the alcoholic content therein, provided that this limitation shall not apply to the taking of breath or urine specimens. No physician, registered nurse, or other qualified person or employer thereof shall incur any civil or criminal liability as a result of the medically proper obtaining of such blood specimens when requested in writing by a law enforcement officer;
  (3) The person tested may have a physician or a qualified technician, chemist, registered nurse, or other qualified person of his or her own choosing administer a chemical test or tests in addition to any administered at the direction of a law enforcement officer. The justifiable failure or inability to obtain an additional test shall not preclude the admission of evidence relating to the test or tests taken at the direction of a law enforcement officer; and
  (4) Upon the request of the person who shall submit to a chemical test or tests at the request of a law enforcement officer, full information concerning the test or tests shall be made available to such person or such person's attorney. The arresting officer at the time of arrest shall advise the person arrested of his or her rights to a chemical test or tests according to this Code section.
(e) In the event of a hunting accident involving a fatality, the investigating coroner or medical examiner having jurisdiction shall direct that a chemical blood test to determine the alcohol concentration or the presence of drugs be performed on the dead person and that the results of such test be properly recorded on his or her report.
(f) Upon the trial of any civil or criminal action or proceeding arising out of acts alleged to have been committed by any person hunting in violation of subsection (b) of this Code section, the amount of alcohol in the person's blood at the time alleged, as shown by chemical analysis of the person's blood, urine, breath, or other bodily substance, shall give rise to the following presumptions:
  (1) If there was at that time an alcohol concentration of 0.05 grams or less, it shall be presumed that the person was not under the influence of alcohol, as prohibited by paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b) of this Code section;
  (2) If there was at that time an alcohol concentration in excess of 0.05 grams but less than 0.08 grams, such fact shall not give rise to any presumption that the person was or was not under the influence of alcohol, as prohibited by paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b) of this Code section, but such fact may be considered with other competent evidence in determining whether the person was under the influence of alcohol, as prohibited by paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of subsection (b) of this Code section; and
  (3) If there was at that time or within three hours after hunting, from alcohol consumed before such hunting ended, an alcohol concentration of 0.08 or more grams, the person shall be in violation of paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of this Code section.
(g)
  (1) Any person who exercises the privilege of hunting in this state shall be deemed to have given consent, subject to subsection (d) of this Code section, to a chemical test or tests of his or her blood, breath, urine, or other bodily substances for the purpose of determining the presence of alcohol or any other drug, if arrested for any offense arising out of acts alleged to have been committed while such person was hunting in violation of subsection (b) of this Code section. Subject to subsection (d) of this Code section, the requesting law enforcement officer shall designate which test or tests shall be administered.
  (2) At the time a chemical test or tests are requested, the arresting officer shall read to the person the following implied consent warning: "The State of Georgia has conditioned your license to hunt in this state upon your submission to state administered chemical tests of your blood, breath, urine, or other bodily substances for the purpose of determining if you are under the influence of alcohol or drugs. If you refuse this testing and you are convicted of hunting while under the influence of alcohol or drugs, your ability to lawfully hunt in this state will be suspended for a period of two years. Your refusal to submit to blood or urine testing may be offered into evidence against you at trial. If you submit to testing and the results indicate an alcohol concentration of 0.08 grams or more and if you are subsequently convicted of hunting under the influence of alcohol by having an alcohol concentration of 0.08 grams or more at any time within three hours after hunting from alcohol consumed before such hunting ended, your ability to lawfully hunt in this state will be suspended for a period of one year. After first submitting to the requested state tests, you are entitled to additional chemical tests of your blood, breath, urine, or other bodily substances at your own expense and from qualified personnel of your own choosing. Will you submit to the state administered chemical tests of your (designate which test?)"
(h) Any person who is dead, unconscious, or otherwise in a condition rendering such person incapable of refusal shall be deemed not to have withdrawn the consent provided by subsection (g) of this Code section, and the test or tests may be administered, subject to subsection (d) of this Code section.
(i)
  (1) If a person refuses, upon the request of a law enforcement officer, to submit to a chemical test designated by the law enforcement officer as provided in subsection (g) of this Code section, no test shall be given; provided, however, that subject to the provisions of paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection, such refusal shall be admissible in any legal action; and provided, further, that upon conviction of a violation of subsection (b) of this Code section, in addition to any other punishment imposed, such person's privileges to hunt in this state shall be suspended by operation of law for a period of two years. The fact that such person was not in possession of a valid hunting license at the time of the violation shall have no effect on the suspension of his or her hunting privilege.
  (2) If in any legal action a party desires to present evidence of the refusal of a person charged with violating subsection (b) of this Code section to submit to a chemical test designated by a law enforcement officer as provided in subsection (g) of this Code section, the party desiring to present such evidence shall request the judge presiding over such legal proceeding to hold a hearing to determine the admissibility of such evidence after notice to the person alleged to have refused to submit to such testing and to the law enforcement officer.
  (3) The scope of the hearing shall be limited to the following issues:
    (A) Whether the law enforcement officer had reasonable grounds to believe the person was hunting while under the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance and was lawfully placed under arrest for violating subsection (b) of this Code section;
    (B) Whether at the time of the request for the test or tests the officer informed the person of the person's implied consent rights and the consequence of submitting or refusing to submit to such test; and
    (C) Whether the person refused to submit to the test.
  (4) It shall be unlawful during any period of a person's hunting privilege suspension for such person to:
    (A) Hunt without a license in violation of Code Section 27-2-1;
    (B) Possess a current Georgia hunting license; or
    (C) Hunt in any situation where a hunting license is not required.
  (5) Any person convicted of hunting while intoxicated while his or her hunting privileges are suspended pursuant to this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(j) Nothing in this Code section shall be deemed to preclude the acquisition or admission of evidence of a violation of this Code section if the evidence was obtained by voluntary consent or a search warrant as authorized by the Constitution or the laws of this state or the United States.
(k) Upon the request of a law enforcement officer, if a person consents to submit to a chemical test designated by such officer as provided in subsection (g) of this Code section, and the results of such test indicate an alcohol concentration of 0.08 grams or more, upon a conviction of a violation of paragraph (4) of subsection (b) of this Code section, in addition to any other punishment imposed, such person's privileges to hunt in this state shall be suspended by operation of law for a period of one year. Even if such person did not possess a valid hunting license at the time of the violation, such person's hunting privileges shall be suspended for one year.
(l) Following the period of suspension set forth in subsection (i) or (k) of this Code section, such person may apply to the department for reinstatement of his or her hunting privileges. Any suspension pursuant to this Code section shall remain in effect until such person submits proof of completion of a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program certified by the Department of Driver Services and pays a restoration fee of $200.00, unless such conviction was a recidivist conviction, in which case the restoration fee shall be $500.00.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 600,§ 2-2, eff. 8/5/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 69,§ 1, eff. 4/28/2019.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 544,§ 2, eff. 5/1/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 26,§ 3, eff. 5/15/2013.
