# § 27-3-29. Recording and reporting requirements for game animals and birds; penalty for violations

(a) The board shall promulgate rules and regulations establishing harvest recording and reporting requirements for game animals and game birds. Such rules and regulations shall describe the type of information that is required, the requirements for transportation of the carcass of a game animal or game bird killed by another person, and the requirements for possession of the carcass of a game animal or game bird by any private or commercial cold storage or processing facility.
(b) Except in compliance with all applicable rules and regulations of the board regarding required harvest recording and reporting, it shall be unlawful for:
  (1) Any person killing a game animal or game bird to remove the carcass from the place of killing or for any person to transport the carcass of a game animal or game bird killed by another person; or
  (2) Any private or commercial cold storage or processing facility to possess the carcass of a game animal or game bird.
(c) It shall be unlawful to obtain, possess, or otherwise use multiple sets of licenses or harvest records for the purpose of circumventing the bag limit for any game animal or game bird for which a harvest record is required by the rules and regulations of the board.
(d) Any person violating the provisions of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $200.00 or by imprisonment for not more than 30 days, or both.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 177,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
