# § 27-3-15. Seasons and bag limits; promulgation of rules and regulations by board; possession of more than bag limit; deer management assistance program

(a) It shall be unlawful to hunt the following game species at any time during the periods set forth below: Game Species Closed Season(1) QuailMarch 16 - Oct. 31(2) GrouseMarch 1 - Oct. 14(3) Turkey(A) GobblersMay 22 - March 14(B) HensAll year(4) DeerJan. 16 - Sept. 7; except that as may be appropriate, and based solely on sound wildlife management principles, the department may by rule extend the season by region, by county, or locale to Jan. 31 for archery only.(5) BobcatMarch 1 - Oct. 14(6) OpossumNo closed season, except as may be adopted by the board(7) RabbitMarch 1 - Oct. 31(8) RaccoonNo closed season, except as may be adopted by the board(9) SquirrelMarch 1 - August 14(10) BearJan. 16 - Sept. 7(11) Sea turtles and their eggsAll year(12) Cougar (Puma concolor)All year(13) AlligatorsNov. 1 - March 31(14) Migratory game birdsMarch 11 - August 31
(b) It shall be unlawful to hunt the following game species at any time during the period set forth below, except that it shall not be unlawful to hunt the following game species during such periods or portions thereof, and in such number not to exceed the following numbers, as may be designated by the board as open seasons and bag limits for such species: Game SpeciesMaximum Open SeasonMaximum Bag LimitsDailySeason(1) QuailNov. 1 - March 1512No limit(2) GrouseOct. 15 - Feb. 293No limit(3) Turkey gobblersMarch 15 - May 2133(4) DeerSept. 8 - Jan. 15;1212except that as may be appropriate and based solely on sound wildlife management principles, the department may by rule extend the season by region, by county, or locale to Jan. 31 for archery onlyThe department may by rule exempt deer taken on department managed lands from the state-wide bag limit.(5) BobcatOct. 15 - Feb. 29No limitNo limit(6) OpossumJan. 1 - Dec. 31No limitNo limit(7) RabbitNov. 1 - Feb. 2912No limit(8) RaccoonJan. 1 - Dec. 31No limitNo limit(9) SquirrelAug. 15 - Feb. 2912No limit(10) FoxJan. 1 - Dec. 31No limitNo limit(11) Migratory game birdsSept. 1 - March 10Subject to limits set by the federal government and adopted by the board(12) BearSept. 8 - Jan. 1522The department may by rule exempt bear taken on department managed lands from the state-wide bag limit.(13) AlligatorsApril 1 - Oct. 31Subject to limits adopted by the board
(c) In accordance with subsection (b) of this Code section and as may be appropriate, based on sound wildlife management principles, the board is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations establishing open seasons on a state-wide, regional, or local basis and establishing daily and season bag limits.
(d) In accordance with subsection (b) of this Code section and in accordance with the framework of open hunting season dates for migratory game birds established by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service and as may be appropriate based on sound wildlife management principles, the board is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations establishing methods of taking, daily and season bag limits, and open seasons for migratory game birds on a state-wide, regional, or local basis. The board is specifically authorized to promulgate such rules and regulations without complying with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act"; and all rules and regulations promulgated by the board pursuant to this subsection shall be effective immediately upon adoption by the board.
(e) It shall be unlawful for any person to possess more than the daily bag limit or more than the aggregate of the daily bag limits while in the field or while returning from the field to one's automobile or principal means of land transportation or to one's permanent abode or temporary or transient place of lodging or to a commercial storage facility or to a post office or to a common carrier facility.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, it shall be unlawful to take the species designated below, except squirrels, by means of falconry at any time during the period March 16 through September 30; but it shall not be unlawful to take the species designated below, except squirrels, by means of falconry during the period October 1 through March 15. It shall be unlawful to take squirrels by means of falconry at any time during the period March 16 through August 14, but it shall not be unlawful to take squirrels by means of falconry at any time during the period August 15 through March 15 in such number not exceeding the bag limits for each such species as follows: Game SpeciesMaximum Bag LimitsDailySeason(1) Quail12No limit(2) Grouse3No limit(3) Rabbit12No limit(4) Squirrel12No limit
(g) As may be appropriate based on sound principles of wildlife management, the department is authorized to establish a deer management assistance program, which may include fees and may prescribe property-specific bag limits without complying with the state-wide bag limit specified in subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 863,§ 1, eff. 5/10/2022.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 32,§ 2-4, eff. 4/27/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 600,§ 4-2, eff. 8/5/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 264,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 635,§ 4, eff. 6/4/2010.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 380,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 380,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 939, § 6, eff. 7/1/2002.
