# § 27-3-24. Restrictions on hunting feral hogs

(a) It shall be unlawful to hunt, or engage in the hunting of, feral hogs:
  (1) Upon the lands of another or enter upon the lands of another in pursuit of feral hogs without first obtaining permission from the landowner or lessee of such land or the lessee of the game rights of such land;
  (2) Upon any land which is posted without having the permission required by paragraph (1) of this subsection in writing and carried upon the person; or
  (3) During the firearms deer season unless the hunter and each person accompanying the hunter are wearing a total of at least 500 square inches of daylight fluorescent orange material as an outer garment and such material or garment is worn above the waistline, and may include a head covering.
(a.1)
  (1) The board may by rule or regulation restrict the feeding, baiting, or hunting of feral hogs upon, over, around, or near feed or bait in any county wherein there is a documented occurrence of a communicable disease in deer and in any county adjoining such county. Such restriction may be imposed in such county and any adjoining county for a period of up to and including one year and may be extended for additional periods of up to and including two years each upon documentation that the communicable disease is still present in deer in such county. No person shall feed, bait, or hunt feral hogs in violation of any restriction imposed pursuant to this paragraph.
  (2) The department shall give notice of such restriction by mail or electronic means to each person holding a current license to hunt whose last known address is within a restricted county. The department may place or designate the placement of signs and markers so as to give notice of such restriction.
(a.2) Nothing in this Code section shall prohibit any person from placing, exposing, depositing, distributing, or scattering any corn, wheat, or other grains, salts, apples, or other feed or bait so as to constitute a lure, attraction, or enticement for feral hogs; provided, however, that any such lure, attraction, or enticement shall not be placed, exposed, deposited, distributed, or scattered so as to cause hunting any species of wildlife on any adjoining property to be prohibited under this Code section.
(b) It shall be unlawful to transport any live feral hog without carrying on his or her person a feral hog transport permit issued by the Department of Agriculture pursuant to Code Section 2-7-201. Any person who captures live feral hogs without such permit shall kill such feral hogs prior to transport from the point of capture.
(c) The Board of Natural Resources is authorized by rules or regulations to control and regulate the hunting or taking of feral hogs on wildlife management areas.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 264,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 228,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 61,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 18,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
