# § 27-3-182. Permit application for applying fertility control to wildlife

(a) Application for a wildlife fertility control permit shall be made on forms obtained from the department.
(b) The department may issue such a permit only if it has determined that the proposed activity is in the best interest of the wildlife resources. In making such a determination, the department may consider the following:
  (1) Whether the proposed activity may preclude the use of hunting as the primary management tool;
  (2) Whether the drug has been approved by the federal Food and Drug Administration;
  (3) Whether there is a need for the information and data or a need to manage the target wildlife population to achieve the objectives sought by the applicant;
  (4) Whether the proposed activity would duplicate sound scientific research previously accomplished;
  (5) Whether the proposed activity is of reasonably sound design;
  (6) Whether the proposed activity poses health or safety risks to humans and wildlife, including, but not limited to, wildlife species that may consume the target wildlife;
  (7) Whether the proposed activity includes all necessary approvals, including, but not limited to, any federal or state agency approvals for specific or extra label use and any agency or institutional endorsement of the application; and
  (8) Whether the applicant or the sponsor has documented that he or she has adequate funds available to implement the proposed activity.
(c) In the event that a determination has been made to revoke, suspend, deny, or refuse to renew any wildlife fertility control permit issued pursuant to this article, the applicant for such permit may appeal the determination according to the provisions stated in Code Section 27-2-25.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 635,§ 9, eff. 6/4/2010.
