# § 27-3-110. Shooting preserve license required; effective dates; contents of application; conditions for issuance

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to release pen raised game birds, except as provided in Code Section 27-2-14, unless the person has first obtained a commercial or private shooting preserve license as provided in Code Section 27-2-23. Such license shall be effective from April 1 through March 31 of the following year.
(b) An application for a shooting preserve license shall be submitted on a form furnished by the department and shall contain the following:
  (1) The applicant's name and address;
  (2) A detailed description of the proposed activities and operations on the shooting preserve;
  (3) The location and description of the premises of the preserve; and
  (4) Such other information as may be necessary in order for the department to evaluate the application properly.
(c) No shooting preserve license shall be issued unless the following conditions are met:
  (1) The land to comprise the preserve must consist of not more than 1,000 acres and not less than 100 contiguous acres and must be owned or leased by the applicant. If the land is under lease to the applicant, the lease shall be for a term of not less than one year from the date of application, and such lease shall be subject to inspection and approval by the department;
  (2) The boundary lines of the premises must be marked by signs indicating that they are the boundary line signs and that the premises are posted as against trespassing; and
  (3) As a condition of holding a shooting preserve license issued pursuant to this Code section, the owner of the shooting preserve, or his or her lessee or agent, shall, prior to allowing any person to hunt on such shooting preserve:
    (A) Confirm that such person has either completed a hunter education course as prescribed in Code Section 27-2-5; or
    (B) Provide such person with hunter education instruction that, at minimum, demonstrates techniques for proper firearm handling, unloading, and safety.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 247,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 27, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 825, § 3, eff. 7/1/2002.
