# § 27-3-69. Required licenses for fur dealers and fur dealers' agents

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in business as a fur dealer or in business as a fur dealer's agent unless such person has a current valid license to engage in such business.
(b) For purposes of obtaining a fur dealer license, a person who is a legal resident of Georgia at the time of application for such license, a partnership in which all partners are residents of this state, and a corporation which is incorporated under the laws of this state or qualified to do business within this state and having a regularly maintained and established place of business within this state shall be deemed eligible for a resident license. All other fur dealer license applicants shall be required to obtain a nonresident license. Fur dealer licenses shall include the name of the licensee if the holder is an individual, the names of the partners if the holder is a partnership, and the names of the president and the manager if the holder is a corporation.
(c) Any employee or officer of a fur dealer may apply for a fur dealer's agent license if the employee or officer is authorized to purchase, sell, or otherwise acquire title to or possession of furs, hides, skins, and pelts for and on behalf of a licensed fur dealer and if the fur dealer approves any such application, provided that no employee may be a licensed fur dealer's agent for more than one licensed fur dealer at the same time. No such license shall be transferable, and there shall be no rebate, refund, or reduction in the license fee for any reason whatsoever.
(d) Any person who violates this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
