# § 27-3-62. Open seasons

(a) Except as otherwise specifically provided in this Code section, it shall be unlawful to trap any wildlife in this state between March 1 and November 19.
(b) It shall be unlawful to trap any wildlife during the period between November 20 and February 29, except as otherwise provided in this Code section and except that it shall not be unlawful to trap a fur-bearing animal during that period or a portion thereof if that period or portion thereof is designated by the board as an open trapping season for such fur-bearing animal.
(c) In accordance with subsection (b) of this Code section and as may be appropriate in accordance with sound wildlife management principles, the board is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations establishing open seasons for the trapping of fur-bearing animals on a state-wide, regional, or local basis.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section, it shall be lawful to trap on private land not operated by the department beaver, raccoons, opossum, rats, and mice at any time during the year. It shall also be lawful for any person to set steel traps within 200 yards of the residence or dwelling of any such person for the protection of livestock, ratites, poultry, or other fowl or domestic animals from any predatory bird or animal.
(e) Any person who violates any provision of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 863,§ 2, eff. 5/10/2022.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 26,§ 1, eff. 4/29/2015.
