# § 9-12-134. Appeal or stay of foreign judgment; security for satisfaction

(a) If the judgment debtor shows the court that an appeal from the foreign judgment is pending or will be taken or that a stay of execution has been granted and proves that the judgment debtor has furnished the security for the satisfaction of the judgment required by the state in which it was rendered, the court shall stay enforcement of the foreign judgment until the appeal is concluded, the time for appeal expires, or the stay of execution expires or is vacated.
(b) If the judgment debtor shows the court any ground on which enforcement of a judgment of the court of this state would be stayed, including the ground that an appeal from the foreign judgment is pending or will be taken or that the time for taking such an appeal has not yet expired, the court shall stay enforcement of the foreign judgment for an appropriate period until all available appeals are concluded or the time for taking all appeals has expired and require the same security for satisfaction of the judgment that is required in this state, subject to the provisions of subsections (b) and (f) of Code Section 5-6-46.
(c) With respect to a guardianship order or conservatorship order from another state registered and recorded under Article 4 of Chapter 11 of Title 29, nothing in subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section shall prevent an appropriate court from taking any action permitted by subsection (d) of Code Section 29-4-70, subsection (d) of Code Section 29-5-110, or Articles 1 and 2 of Chapter 11 of Title 29.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 233,§ 36, eff. 1/1/2020.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 778, § 2, eff. 5/19/2004.
