# § 48-5-24. Payment of taxes to county in which returns are made; installment payments, interest, and penalty on delinquent tax payments in certain counties; executions

(a) All resident and nonresident persons who are required or directed by law to return any property for taxation to a tax commissioner or tax receiver shall pay the taxes on the property to the county in which the property is required or directed by law to be returned.
(b) In all counties having a population of not less than 690,000 nor more than 800,000 according to the United States decennial census of 2010 or any future such census, the taxes shall become due in two equal installments. One-half of the taxes shall be due and payable on July 1 of each year and shall become delinquent if not paid by August 15 in each year. The remaining one-half of the taxes shall be due and payable on October 1 of each year and shall become delinquent if not paid by November 15 of each year. A penalty not to exceed 5 percent of the amount of each installment shall be added to each installment that is not paid before the installment becomes delinquent. Intangible taxes in one installment shall become due on October 1 of each year and shall become delinquent if not paid by December 31. A penalty not to exceed 5 percent of the amount of intangible taxes due shall be added to any installment that is not paid before it becomes delinquent. All taxes remaining unpaid as of the close of business on December 31 of each year shall bear interest at the rate specified in Code Section 48-2-40, but in no event shall an interest payment for delinquent taxes be less than $1.00. The tax collectors shall issue executions for delinquent taxes, penalties, and interest against each delinquent taxpayer in their respective counties. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the governing authority of any county subject to this subsection may change the tax due dates provided in this subsection if the county's tax digest is not approved pursuant to Code Section 48-5-271 before July 1 of any year.
(c)
  (1) All ad valorem taxes, fees, service charges, and assessments owed by any taxpayer to any county in this state having a population of 900,000 or more according to the United States decennial census of 2010 or any future such census or to any municipality lying wholly or partially within such county and having a population of 350,000 or more according to the United States decennial census of 1970 or any future such census, which are not paid when due shall bear interest at the following rates until paid:
    (A) The rate specified in Code Section 48-2-40 on the total amount of any such taxes, fees, service charges, or assessments which are not paid when due; and
    (B) An additional rate of interest on the amount of such taxes, fees, service charges, and assessments which exceeds $1,000.00 equal to 1 percent per annum for each full calendar month which elapses between the date that the taxes, fees, service charges, and assessments first become due and the date on which they are paid in full. The total rate of interest determined under this paragraph shall not exceed 12 percent per annum or the rate specified in Code Section 48-2-40, whichever is more. The additional rate of interest shall not apply to amounts determined to be owed by a taxpayer pursuant to any arbitration, equalization, or similar proceeding, if brought in good faith by the taxpayer, provided that the taxpayer shall have previously paid to the county or municipality the amount of such liability which was not in dispute;
  (2) The rates of interest provided in subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be determined on the date delinquent amounts are paid in full and interest at the rate so determined shall accrue from the date on which the amount or installment thereof first becomes due until the date on which the amount or installment thereof is paid in full. Determination of the rates of interest shall be made separately as to amounts owed by a taxpayer to separate taxing jurisdictions, and the determination shall be made separately as to each parcel of property owned by a taxpayer.
  (3) The tax collectors, tax commissioners, or governing authority of any such county or municipality shall issue executions against such taxpayer owing taxes, fees, service charges, or assessments together with interest thereon as provided in this subsection when the same become delinquent.
(d) In all counties having a population of not less than 150,000 nor more than 180,000 or not less than 183,000 nor more than 216,000 or not less than 218,000 nor more than 445,000 according to the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census, a penalty of 10 percent of the tax due shall accrue on taxes not paid on or before December 20 of each year, and interest shall accrue at the rate specified in Code Section 48-2-40 on the total amount of unpaid taxes and penalty until both the taxes and penalty are paid. The tax collectors shall issue executions for such taxes, penalty, and interest against each delinquent taxpayer in their respective counties. The 10 percent penalty shall be paid over to the county fiscal authority to assist the county in paying the expense of collecting the delinquent taxes.
(e) In all counties having a population of not less than 680,000 nor more than 690,000 according to the United States decennial census of 2010 or any future such census, the taxes shall become due and payable on August 15 in each year and shall become delinquent if not paid by October 15 of each year. A penalty of 5 percent of the tax due shall accrue on taxes not paid on or before October 15 of each year, and interest shall accrue at the rate specified in Code Section 48-2-40 on the total amount of unpaid taxes and penalty until both the taxes and the penalty are paid. The tax collectors shall issue executions for delinquent taxes, penalties, and interest against each delinquent taxpayer in their respective counties. Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed to impose any liability for the payment of any ad valorem taxes upon any person for property which was not owned on January 1 of the applicable tax year.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 660,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 977, §1, eff. 5/16/2002 and § 2 eff. 7/1/2002.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 990, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
