# § 48-5-211. Interim and emergency filling of vacancies in office of tax receiver, collector, or commissioner

(a) Except as otherwise provided in Code Section 48-5-212, as soon as a vacancy occurs in the office of county tax receiver, tax collector, or tax commissioner, the judge of the probate court shall appoint a qualified person to discharge the duties of such officer until the vacancy is filled.
(b) When a vacancy occurs as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section and it is not more than six months from the time the election can be called by the county election superintendent and held until the existing term will expire, the person or persons appointed shall discharge the duties of the office for the balance of the term and there shall be no special election.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, if from any sudden emergency there is a vacancy and a proper person cannot immediately be appointed, the judge of the probate court or his clerk shall act as county tax receiver, tax collector, or tax commissioner.
(d) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, when a vacancy occurs as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, the election superintendent of the county where it occurs shall call and conduct a special election in the manner provided for in Chapter 2 of Title 21.
(e) The person elected pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section shall hold office for the unexpired term. The returns of the election shall be made to the Secretary of State. Such person shall be commissioned by the Governor.
