# § 48-5-48.3. Homestead exemption for senior citizens

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40 with the additional qualification that it shall include only the primary residence and not more than ten contiguous acres of land immediately surrounding such residence.
  (2) "Senior citizen" means a person who is 65 years of age or over on or before January 1 of the year in which application for the exemption under this Code section is made.
(b) Any person who is a senior citizen and resident of Georgia is granted upon application an exemption on his or her homestead which such person owns and actually occupies as a residence and homestead in an amount equal to the actual levy for state ad valorem taxation made pursuant to Code Section 48-5-8 with respect to that homestead, such exemption being from all ad valorem taxation for state purposes. The value of all property in excess of the exempted amount cited above shall remain subject to taxation.
(c) The exemption shall be claimed and returned in the same manner as otherwise required under Code Section 48-5-50.1. Each person shall file for the exemption only once in the county of his or her residence. Once filed, the exemption shall automatically be renewed from year to year.
(d) The exemption granted by this Code section shall not apply to or affect county taxes, municipal taxes, or school district taxes.
(e) The exemption granted by this Code section shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any other homestead exemption from state taxes.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 48, eff. 6/3/2010.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 570,§ 3, eff. 11/7/2006.
