# § 48-5-2. Definitions

(.1) "Arm's length, bona fide sale" means a transaction which has occurred in good faith without fraud or deceit carried out by unrelated or unaffiliated parties, as by a willing buyer and a willing seller, each acting in his or her own self-interest, including but not limited to a distress sale, short sale, bank sale, or sale at public auction.
(1) "Current use value" of bona fide conservation use property means the amount a knowledgeable buyer would pay for the property with the intention of continuing the property in its existing use and in an arm's length, bona fide sale and shall be determined in accordance with the specifications and criteria provided for in subsection (b) of Code Section 48-5-269.
(2) "Current use value" of bona fide residential transitional property means the amount a knowledgeable buyer would pay for the property with the intention of continuing the property in its existing use and in an arm's length, bona fide sale. The tax assessor shall consider the following criteria, as applicable, in determining the current use value of bona fide residential transitional property:
  (A) The current use of such property;
  (B) Annual productivity; and
  (C) Sales data of comparable real property with and for the same existing use.
(2.1) 'Estimated roll-back rate' means the current year's estimated millage rate minus the millage equivalent of the total net assessed value added by reassessments:
  (A) As calculated and certified to the tax commissioner by the levying authority for county and educational tax purposes; and
  (B) As calculated and certified to the collecting officer of the municipality by the levying authority for municipal tax purposes.
(3)'Fair market value of property' means the amount a knowledgeable buyer would pay for the property and a willing seller would accept for the property at an arm's length, bona fide sale. The income approach, if data are available, shall be considered in determining the fair market value of income-producing property. If actual income and expense data are voluntarily supplied by the property owner, such data shall be considered in such determination. With respect to the valuation of equipment, machinery, and fixtures when no ready market exists for the sale of the equipment, machinery, and fixtures, fair market value may be determined by resorting to any reasonable, relevant, and useful information available, including, but not limited to, the original cost of the property, any depreciation or obsolescence, and any increase in value by reason of inflation. Each tax assessor shall have access to any public records of the taxpayer for the purpose of discovering such information.
  (A) In determining the fair market value of a going business where its continued operation is reasonably anticipated, the tax assessor may value the equipment, machinery, and fixtures which are the property of the business as a whole where appropriate to reflect the accurate fair market value.
  (B) The tax assessor shall apply the following criteria in determining the fair market value of real property:
    (i) Existing zoning of property;
    (ii) Existing use of property, including any restrictions or limitations on the use of property resulting from state or federal law or rules or regulations adopted pursuant to the authority of state or federal law;
    (iii) Existing covenants or restrictions in deed dedicating the property to a particular use;
    (iv) Bank sales, other financial institution owned sales, or distressed sales, or any combination thereof, of comparable real property;
    (v) Decreased value of the property based on limitations and restrictions resulting from the property being in a conservation easement;
    (vi) Rent limitations, higher operating costs resulting from regulatory requirements imposed on the property, and any other restrictions imposed upon the property in connection with the property being eligible for any income tax credits with respect to real property which are claimed and granted pursuant to either Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or Chapter 7 of this title or receiving any other state or federal subsidies provided with respect to the use of the property as residential rental property; provided, however, that properties described in this division shall not be considered comparable real property for the assessment or appeal of assessment of properties not covered by this division;
    (vii)
      (I) In establishing the value of any property subject to rent restrictions under the sales comparison approach, any income tax credits described in division (vi) of this subparagraph that are attributable to a property may be considered in determining the fair market value of the property, provided that the tax assessor uses comparable sales of property which, at the time of the comparable sale, had unused income tax credits that were transferred in an arm's length, bona fide sale.
      (II) In establishing the value of any property subject to rent restrictions under the income approach, any income tax credits described in division (vi) of this subparagraph that are attributable to property may be considered in determining the fair market value of the property, provided that such income tax credits generate actual income to the record holder of title to the property; and
    (viii) Any other existing factors provided by law or by rule and regulation of the commissioner deemed pertinent in arriving at fair market value.
  (B.1) The tax assessor shall not consider any income tax credits with respect to real property which are claimed and granted pursuant to either Section 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or Chapter 7 of this title in determining the fair market value of real property.
  (B.2) In determining the fair market value of real property, the tax assessor shall not include the value of any intangible assets used by a business, wherever located, including patents, trademarks, trade names, customer agreements, and merchandising agreements.
  (C) Fair market value of "rehabilitated historic property" as such term is defined in subsection (a) of Code Section 48-5-7.2 means:
    (i) For the first eight years in which the property is classified as rehabilitated historic property, the value equal to the greater of the acquisition cost of the property or the appraised fair market value of the property as recorded in the county tax digest at the time preliminary certification on such property was received by the county board of tax assessors pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 48-5-7.2;
    (ii) For the ninth year in which the property is classified as rehabilitated historic property, the value of the property as determined by division (i) of this subparagraph plus one-half of the difference between such value and the current fair market value exclusive of the provisions of this subparagraph; and
    (iii) For the tenth and following years, the fair market value of such property as determined by the provisions of this paragraph, excluding the provisions of this subparagraph.
  (D) Fair market value of "landmark historic property" as such term is defined in subsection (a) of Code Section 48-5-7.3 means:
    (i) For the first eight years in which the property is classified as landmark historic property, the value equal to the greater of the acquisition cost of the property or the appraised fair market value of the property as recorded in the county tax digest at the time certification on such property was received by the county board of tax assessors pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 48-5-7.3;
    (ii) For the ninth year in which the property is classified as landmark historic property, the value of the property as determined by division (i) of this subparagraph plus one-half of the difference between such value and the current fair market value exclusive of the provisions of this subparagraph; and
    (iii) For the tenth and following years, the fair market value of such property as determined by the provisions of this paragraph, excluding the provisions of this subparagraph.
  (E) Timber shall be valued at its fair market value at the time of its harvest or sale in the manner specified in Code Section 48-5-7.5.
  (F) Fair market value of "brownfield property" as such term is defined in subsection (a) of Code Section 48-5-7.6 means:
    (i) Unless sooner disqualified pursuant to subsection (e) of Code Section 48-5-7.6, for the first ten years in which the property is classified as brownfield property, or as this period of preferential assessment may be extended pursuant to subsection (o) of Code Section 48-5-7.6, the value equal to the lesser of the acquisition cost of the property or the appraised fair market value of the property as recorded in the county tax digest at the time application was made to the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources for participation under Article 9 of Chapter 8 of Title 12, the "Georgia Brownfield Act," as amended; and
    (ii) Unless sooner disqualified pursuant to subsection (e) of Code Section 48-5-7.6, for the eleventh and following years, or at the end of any extension of this period of preferential assessment pursuant to subsection (o) of Code Section 48-5-7.6, the fair market value of such property as determined by the provisions of this paragraph, excluding the provisions of this subparagraph.
  (G) Fair market value of "qualified timberland property" means the fair market value determined in accordance with Article 13 of this chapter.
(4) "Foreign merchandise in transit" means personal property of any description which has been or will be moved by waterborne commerce through any port located in this state and:
  (A) Which has entered the export stream, although temporarily stored or warehoused in the county where the port of export is located; or
  (B) Which was shipped from a point of origin located outside the customs territory of the United States and on which United States customs duties are paid at or through any customs district or port located in this state, although stored or warehoused in the county where the port of entry is located while in transit to a final destination.
(5) "Forest land conservation use value" of forest land conservation use property means the amount determined in accordance with the specifications and criteria provided for in Code Section 48-5-271 and Article VII, Section I, Paragraph III(f) of the Constitution.
(6) "Forest land fair market value" means the fair market value of the forest land determined in accordance with Article VII, Section I, Paragraph III(f) of the Constitution.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 379,§ 1-1, eff. 1/1/2025, app. to taxable years beginning on or after 1/1/2025.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 223,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2020.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 562,§ 48, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 296,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 296,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 25,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 645,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 612,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 699,§ 3, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 670,§ 5-4, eff. 1/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 670,§ 5-3, eff. 1/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 670,§ 5-2, eff. 1/1/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 670,§ 5-1, eff. 1/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 9,§ 1, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 464,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2009.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 28, § 1, eff. 5/14/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 348, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
See 2024 Ga. Laws 379, § 4-1.
