# § 48-5-601. Determination of fair market value; access to property; delivery to county tax officials

(a) Qualified timberland property shall be returned to the commissioner between January 1 and April 1 each year.
(b) The fair market value of qualified timberland property shall be determined through an annual appraisal conducted by the commissioner in accordance with the qualified timberland property appraisal manual provided for in Code Section 48-5-602.
(c) The commissioner shall have access to qualified timberland property for the purpose of conducting appraisals, provided that prior notice has been given to the qualified owner of such property.
(d) The commissioner shall ensure that the appraisal values of qualified timberland property are delivered to county tax officials by July 1 of each year.
(e) Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary, pursuant to Article VII, Section I, Paragraph III(f.1) of the Constitution, the value of qualified timberland property shall be at least 175 percent of such property's forest land conservation value determined pursuant to this chapter.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 296,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2019only if an amendment to the Constitution of Georgia is ratified at the November, 2018, general election modifying constitutional prescriptions for forest land conservation use property and related assistance grants, permitting the withholding of a portion of assistance grants to provide for certain state administrative costs, and establishing qualified timberland property as a subclassification of tangible property for purposes of ad valorem taxation.
