# § 48-5-267. State payments for minimum staff of appraisers; state salary supplements for qualified appraisers

(a) An amount which is equal to one-half of the total compensation payable to the minimum staff in all of the counties, as determined by the commissioner with the approval of the Department of Administrative Services, shall be paid to the counties by the department in the following manner:
  (1) The greater of 15 percent of the amount appropriated and deemed available by the commissioner for the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this part regarding minimum staff compensation or $200,000.00, if deemed available by the commissioner, shall be distributed equally among all of the counties of the state; and
  (2) The payment to be made to each county from the remainder of the amount after distribution as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection, if any, shall be equal to the remaining amount multiplied by a fraction, the denominator of which is the total of all parcels of real property located within the state and the numerator of which is the number of parcels of real property located within the county.
(b) Payments provided for in this Code section shall be made in the manner determined by the commissioner. The commissioner shall not make any payments to any county which:
  (1) Is not maintaining its records as required by this part;
  (2) Has not employed a minimum staff of appraisers; or
  (3) In the case of Class I counties, has not entered into a contract providing for the performance of the requirements of this part.
(c) Payments provided for in this Code section shall be paid from funds appropriated to the department.
(d) In addition to the payments for minimum staff appraisers authorized by this Code section, the commissioner, from funds appropriated for that purpose, shall pay to qualified appraisers employed by county governments salary supplements in accordance with the following provisions:
  (1) Each individual employed as a staff appraiser who has earned the Certified Assessment Evaluator designation or the Certified Personalty Evaluator designation, as conferred by the International Association of Assessing Officers, shall be paid a salary supplement of $1,000.00 per year;
  (2) Each individual employed as a staff appraiser who has earned the Georgia Certified Appraiser designation conferred by the Georgia Association of Assessing Officials shall be paid a salary supplement of $750.00 per year. The qualifications and requirements necessary for achievement of the Georgia Certified Appraiser designation shall be approved by the commissioner before any supplements are paid for this designation; and
  (3) Salary supplements shall be paid to each individual qualifying under paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection only for the period of time he or she is actually employed by a county as a staff appraiser and only for the period of time that he or she holds the qualifying designation. Salary supplements shall be paid to each qualified individual for only one qualifying designation at any one time.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-92, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
