# § 48-5-48.1. Level 1 freeport exemption; application; filing; renewal

(a) Any person, firm, or corporation seeking a level 1 freeport exemption from ad valorem taxation of certain tangible personal property inventory when such exemption has been authorized by the governing authority of any county or municipality after approval of the electors of such county or municipality pursuant to the authority of the Constitution of Georgia or Code Section 48-5-48.2 shall file a written application and summary of property with the county board of tax assessors on forms furnished by such board. Such application shall be filed in the year in which exemption from taxation is sought no later than the date on which the tax receiver or tax commissioner of the county in which the property is located closes the books for the return of taxes.
(b) The application for the level 1 freeport exemption shall provide for:
  (1) A summary, as prescribed by the department, of the inventory of goods in the process of manufacture or production which shall include all partly finished goods and raw materials held for direct use or consumption in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business in the State of Georgia;
  (2) A summary, as prescribed by the department, of the inventory of finished goods manufactured or produced within the State of Georgia in the ordinary course of the taxpayer's manufacturing or production business when held by the original manufacturer or producer of such finished goods;
  (3) A summary, as prescribed by the department, of the inventory of finished goods which on January 1 are stored in a warehouse, dock, or wharf, whether public or private, and which are destined for shipment outside the State of Georgia and the inventory of finished goods which are shipped into the State of Georgia from outside this state and which are stored for transshipment to a final destination outside this state. The information required by Code Section 48-5-48.2 to be contained in the official books and records of the warehouse, dock, or wharf where such property is being stored, which official books and records are required to be open to the inspection of taxing authorities of this state and political subdivisions thereof, shall not be required to be included as a part of or to accompany the application for such exemption; and
  (4) A summary, as prescribed by the department, of the stock in trade of a fulfillment center which on January 1 is stored in the fulfillment center. The information required by Code Section 48-5-48.2 to be contained in the official books and records of the fulfillment center where such property is being stored, which official books and records are required to be open to the inspection of the taxing authorities of this state and political subdivisions thereof, shall not be required to be included as a part of or to accompany the application for such exemption.
(c)
  (1) For purposes of this subsection, the term "file properly" shall mean and include the timely filing of the completed application for which exemption is sought on or before the due date specified in subsection (a) of this Code section. Any clerical error, including, but not limited to, a typographical error, scrivener's error, or any unintentional immaterial error or omission in the application shall not be construed as a failure to file properly.
  (2) The failure to file properly the completed application shall constitute a waiver of the exemption on the part of the person, firm, or corporation failing to make the application for such exemption for that year as follows:
    (A) The failure to report any inventory for which such exemption is sought in the summary provided for in the application shall constitute a waiver of the exemption on the part of the person, firm, or corporation failing to so report for that taxable year in an amount equal to the difference between fair market value of the inventory as reported and the fair market value finally determined to be applicable to the inventory for which the exemption is sought; and
    (B) The failure to file timely such completed application shall constitute a waiver of the exemption until the first day of the month following the month such completed application is filed properly with the county tax assessor; provided, however, that unless such completed application is filed on or before June 1 of such year, the exemption shall be waived for that entire year.
(d) Upon receiving the application required by this Code section, the county board of tax assessors shall determine the eligibility of all types of tangible personal property listed on the application. If any property has been listed which the board believes is not eligible for the exemption, the board shall issue a letter notifying the applicant, not later than 180 days after receiving the application, that all or a portion of the application has been denied. The denial letter shall list the type and total fair market value of all property listed on the application for which the exemption has been approved and the type and total fair market value of all property listed on the application for which the exemption has been denied. The applicant shall have the right to appeal from the denial of the exemption for any property listed and such appeal shall proceed as provided in Code Section 48-5-311. Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (c)(2)(A) of this Code section, the county board of assessors shall not send a second letter of notification denying the exemption of all or a portion of such property listed on the application on new grounds that could and should have been discerned at the time the initial denial letter was issued. If, however, the county board of tax assessors fails to issue a letter of denial within 180 days after receiving the taxpayer's application, then the freeport exemption sought in the application shall be deemed accepted in its entirety.
(e) If the level 1 freeport exemption has been granted to a taxpayer for a taxable year, the county board of tax assessors shall issue a notice of renewal to the taxpayer for the immediately following taxable year. Such notice of renewal shall be issued not later than January 15 of such immediately following taxable year to facilitate the filing of a timely completed application by the taxpayer for such taxable year.
(f) Notwithstanding any other provision of law to the contrary, for a taxpayer that claimed an exemption for the 2020 taxable year for finished goods inventory described within paragraph (2) of subsection (c) of Code Section 48-5-48.2, the taxpayer shall have the option to determine the fair market value of eligible finished goods inventory for which such exemption is applicable and sought for the 2021 taxable year based on either the fair market value of applicable inventory as of January 1, 2020, or the fair market value of applicable inventory as of January 1, 2021.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 162,§ 1, eff. 5/4/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 492,§ 1, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 48, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 539,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 606,§ 1, eff. 4/17/2012.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 518, § 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
