# § 48-5-298. Selection of chairman and secretary; employment contracts with persons to assist board; payment of expenses

(a) Each county board of tax assessors shall elect one of its members to serve as chairman for each tax year. The election of a chairman shall be the first order of business at the first meeting of the board for each tax year. At the same time, the board shall select from the county appraisal staff one appraiser to act as secretary to the board for that tax year. Each county board of tax assessors, subject to the approval of the county governing authority, may enter into employment contracts with persons to:
  (1) Assist the board in the mapping, platting, cataloging, indexing, and appraising of taxable properties in the county;
  (2) Make, subject to the approval of the board, reevaluations of taxable property in the county; and
  (3) Search out and appraise unreturned properties in the county.
(b) Each county board of tax assessors may enter into a contract with any municipality or political subdivision of the state to provide any information for which the board could contract pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) The expenses of employees engaged and work performed pursuant to this Code section shall be paid, subject to the contracts and after approval by the county governing authority, out of county funds as a part of the expenses of the board. A county board of education or independent board of education may expend funds to assist in paying the expenses incurred in discovering unreturned properties pursuant to this Code Section for the purpose of collecting unpaid school taxes. The method of such expenditure as provided in this subsection and the amount thereof shall be within the discretion of the county board of education or independent board of education.
