# § 48-5-442. Preparation and distribution of uniform evaluation of motor vehicles for tax purposes

(a)
  (1)
    (A) For the taxable year beginning January 1, 2001, only, the commissioner shall prepare and distribute to each of the tax collectors and tax commissioners a uniform evaluation of all motor vehicles for use as the taxable value of the motor vehicles subject to this article. Each evaluation shall reflect the value which would result from taking 75 percent of the current fair market value and 25 percent of the current wholesale value for all motor vehicles as determined by the commissioner.
    (B) For all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2002, the commissioner shall prepare at least annually and distribute to each of the tax collectors and tax commissioners a uniform evaluation of all motor vehicles for use as the taxable value of the motor vehicles subject to this article. Each evaluation shall reflect the average of the current fair market value and the current wholesale value for all motor vehicles as determined by the commissioner.
  (2) The commissioner shall prepare annually and distribute to each of the tax collectors and tax commissioners uniform procedures for the evaluation of all mobile homes subject to this article.
(b) Notwithstanding subsection (a) of this Code section, all antique and hobby or special interest motor vehicles, as defined in Code Section 48-5-440, shall, notwithstanding true fair market value if any, be deemed by the commissioner to have a fair market value of $100.00 in the uniform evaluation prepared and distributed annually by the commissioner.
(c) This Code section shall not apply to commercial vehicles.
