# § 48-5-78. Change in ownership or use of, or failure to maintain insurance on, tax-deferred homestead; payment of deferred taxes, interest, and unsatisfied liens

(a) In the event that there is a change in use of tax-deferred property so that the owner is no longer entitled to a homestead exemption for the property, or if the owner fails to maintain the required fire and extended insurance coverage, the total amount of deferred taxes and interest for all previous years shall be due and payable either on the date on which the change in use occurs or on the date failure to maintain insurance occurs.
(b) In the event that there is a change in ownership of tax-deferred property, the total amount of deferred taxes and interest for all previous years shall be due and payable on the date the change in ownership occurs. When, however, the change in ownership is to a surviving spouse and the spouse is eligible for a homestead exemption on the property, the surviving spouse may continue the deferral of previously deferred taxes and interest pursuant to this part.
(c) During any year in which the total amount of deferred taxes, interest, and all other unsatisfied liens on a homestead exceeds 85 percent of the fair market value of the homestead, the appropriate tax official shall immediately notify the owner of the homestead that the portion of taxes and interest which exceeds 85 percent of the value of the homestead shall be due and payable within 30 days of receipt of the notice. Failure to pay the amount due shall cause the total amount of deferred taxes and interest also to become due and payable at the end of the 30 days.
(d) Each year, upon notification, each owner of property on which taxes and interest have been deferred shall submit to the appropriate tax official a list, and the current value, of all outstanding liens on the owner's homestead. Failure to respond to the notification within 30 days of its receipt shall cause the total amount of deferred taxes and interest to become due and payable at the end of the 30 days.
(e) All deferred taxes which are made due and payable by this Code section shall be delinquent and subject to interest in accordance with Code Section 48-5-75 at the end of 120 days following the date the deferred taxes become due and payable.
