# § 48-5-48.4. Homestead exemption for unremarried surviving spouse of peace officer or firefighter killed in the line of duty

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Ad valorem taxes" means all state ad valorem taxes and all county, county school district, municipal, and independent school district taxes for county, county school district, municipal, or independent school district purposes including, but not limited to, taxes to retire bonded indebtedness.
  (2) "Homestead" means homestead as defined and qualified in Code Section 48-5-40.
(b) Each resident of the state who is the unremarried surviving spouse of a peace officer or firefighter who was killed in the line of duty is granted an exemption on that person's homestead from all ad valorem taxes for the full value of that homestead.
(c) A person shall not receive the homestead exemption granted by subsection (b) of this Code section unless the person or person's agent files an affidavit with the tax commissioner of the county in which that person resides giving such information relative to receiving such exemption as will enable the tax commissioner to make a determination as to whether such person is entitled to such exemption. The tax commissioner shall provide affidavit forms for this purpose and shall require such information as may be necessary to determine the initial and continuing eligibility of the applicant for the exemption.
(d) The exemption shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Section 48-5-50.1. The exemption shall be automatically renewed from year to year as long as the applicant occupies the residence as a homestead. After a person has filed the proper affidavit as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, it shall not be necessary to make application and file such affidavit thereafter for any year and the exemption shall continue to be allowed to such person. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Code section to notify the tax commissioner or the designee thereof in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for that exemption.
(e) The exemption granted by this Code section shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other homestead exemption from ad valorem taxes.
(f) The exemption granted by this Code section shall apply to all taxable years beginning on or after January 1, 2007.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 948,§ 2, eff. 11/7/2006.
