# § 48-5-504.40. Watercraft and all-terrain vehicles held in inventory for resale exempt from taxation for limited period of time

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "All-terrain vehicle" shall have the same meaning as provided for in paragraph (3) of Code Section 40-1-1.
  (2) "Dealer" means any person who is engaged in the business of selling watercraft or all-terrain vehicles at retail.
  (3) "Watercraft" means any vehicle which is self-propelled or which is capable of self-propelled water transportation, or both.
(b) Watercraft and all-terrain vehicles owned by a dealer and held in inventory for sale or resale shall constitute a separate classification of tangible property for ad valorem taxation purposes. The procedures prescribed in this chapter for returning watercraft or all-terrain vehicles for ad valorem taxation, determining the application rates for taxation, and collecting the ad valorem taxes imposed on watercraft or all-terrain vehicles do not apply to watercraft or all-terrain vehicles owned by a dealer and held in inventory for sale or resale. Such watercraft or all-terrain vehicles owned by a dealer and held in inventory for sale or resale shall not be returned for ad valorem taxation and shall not be taxed, and no taxes shall be collected on such watercraft or all-terrain vehicles until they are transferred and then otherwise, if at all, become subject to taxation as provided in this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 61,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 527,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 225,§ 1, eff. 5/12/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 504,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 753,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2009.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 694,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2007.
See 2016 Ga. Laws 527, § 2.
See 2015 Ga. Laws 225, § 2.
