# § 48-5-274. Establishment of equalized adjusted property tax digest; establishment and use of average ratio; information to be furnished by state auditor; grievance procedure; information to be furnished by commissioner

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Assessment ratio" means the fractional relationship between the assessed value and the fair market value of the property.
  (2) "Measures of central tendency" means the tendency of data to cluster around some typical or central value, such as the median ratio, the mean ratio, or the weighted mean ratio (the weighted mean ratio is also called the aggregate ratio), as defined in the Standard on Assessment-Ratio Studies published by the International Association of Assessing Officers.
(b) The state auditor shall establish on a continuing basis, no later than November 15 in each year, an equalized adjusted property tax digest for each county in the state and for the state as a whole for the current calendar year. Such digest shall exclude all real and personal property exempted from taxation and the difference between the value of all taxable property within any tax allocation district and the tax allocation increment base of such tax allocation district as defined under paragraph (15) of Code Section 36-44-3 for which consent has been obtained pursuant to Code Section 36-44-9. The state auditor may establish a unit within the Department of Audits and Accounts consisting of such number of personnel as is deemed necessary in order to establish and maintain on a continuing basis the equalized adjusted property tax digest. The equalized adjusted property tax digest shall be established and maintained as follows:
  (1) Determine the locally assessed valuation of the county property tax assessment digest for the preceding calendar year, exclusive of real and personal property exempted from taxation, exclusive of the difference between the value of all taxable property within any tax allocation district and the tax allocation increment base of such tax allocation district as defined under paragraph (15) of Code Section 36-44-3 for which consent has been obtained pursuant to Code Section 36-44-9, exclusive of railroad equipment company property shown on the county railroad equipment company property tax digest, exclusive of any property subject to current use valuation on the county property tax digest, and exclusive of the locally assessed valuation of timber harvested or sold;
  (2) Determine the fair market value for timber harvested or sold during the calendar year;
  (3) Divide the sum of the locally assessed valuation of the county property tax assessment digest under paragraph (1) of this subsection by the ratio of assessed value to fair market value of the property established by the state auditor in accordance with paragraph (8) of this subsection;
  (4) Determine the fair market value of the county railroad equipment company property tax digest for the preceding calendar year;
  (5) Determine the sum of the current use valuation of the county property tax digest;
  (6) Determine the total fair market value of the Public Utility Digest as established by the commissioner;
  (6.1) Determine any adjustment necessary to account for the net activities on any digest due to the activities of a joint authority as provided in Code Section 36-62-5.1;
  (7) The total of the sums obtained through the calculations prescribed in paragraphs (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), and (6.1) of this subsection shall be known as the current equalized adjusted property tax digest of the county. The sum of the current equalized adjusted property tax digest of all counties of the state combined shall be known as the current equalized adjusted property tax digest for the state as a whole; and
  (8) Establish for each county in the state the ratio of assessed value to fair market value of county property subject to taxation, excluding railroad equipment company property. The ratio shall be determined by establishing the ratio of assessed value to sales price for each of a representative number of parcels of real property, the titles to which were transferred during a period of time to be determined by the state auditor, and then by establishing the measure of central tendency for the county as a whole based upon a representative number of usable transactions studied. Any such sales price shall be adjusted upward or downward, in a manner consistent with the Standard on Ratio Studies published by the International Association of Assessing Officers or its successors, as reasonably needed to account for the effects of price changes reflected in the market between the date of sale and January 1 of the calendar year for which the equalized adjusted property tax digest is being prepared. Sales prices also shall be reduced by any portion thereof attributable to personal property, real property exempt from taxation, or standing timber included in the sales transaction. The representative number of transactions shall not include any parcel of which the sales price is not reflective of the fair market value of such property as fair market value is defined in Code Section 48-5-2. The state auditor shall supplement realty sales price data available in any county with actual appraisals of a representative number of parcels of farm property and industrial and commercial property located within the county, the titles to which were not transferred within the period of time determined by the state auditor. The state auditor may make appraisals on other types of real property located within the county when adequate realty sales data cannot be obtained on such property. The representative number of parcels of each class of real property as defined by the commissioner used for the study shall be determined by the state auditor. The state auditor may use the same ratio for other personal property, excluding motor vehicles, within the county as is finally determined for real property within the county.
(c) The assessment ratio of assessed value to fair market value of county property to be established by the state auditor for the purposes of paragraph (8) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be established through the use of personnel of the Department of Audits and Accounts who have sufficient competence and expertise by way of education, training, and experience in the fields of property evaluation and appraisal techniques. The Department of Audits and Accounts shall use the Standard on Assessment-Ratio Studies published by the International Association of Assessing Officers or its successors to determine the valid transactions necessary to establish accurately the measure of central tendency described in paragraph (8) of subsection (b) of this Code section; provided, however, that standard shall only be used to the extent it does not conflict with criteria enumerated in subparagraph (B) of paragraph (3) of Code Section 48-5-2.
(d) The assessment ratio of assessed value to fair market value determined for each county shall be used as provided for in this Code section until such time as a new ratio is determined on a continuing basis for each county. The state auditor shall provide to the commissioner the assessment ratio of assessed value to fair market value for all counties upon completion.
(e) On or before November 15 of each year, the state auditor shall furnish to the State Board of Education the current equalized adjusted property tax digest of each county in the state and the current equalized adjusted property tax digest for the state as a whole. In any county which has more than one school system, the state auditor shall furnish the State Board of Education a breakdown of the current county equalized adjusted property tax digest showing the amount of the digest applicable to property located within each of the school systems located within the county. At the same time, the state auditor shall furnish the governing authority of each county, the governing authority of each municipality having an independent school system, the local board of education of each school system, the tax commissioner or tax collector of each county, and the board of tax assessors of each county the current equalized adjusted property tax digest of the local school system or systems, as the case may be, and the current equalized adjusted property tax digest for the state as a whole.
(f)
  (1) Each county governing authority, each governing authority of a municipality having an independent school system, each local board of education, and each county board of tax assessors, when aggrieved or when having an aggrieved constituent, shall have a right, upon written request made within 30 days after receipt of the digest information, to refer the question of correctness of the current equalized adjusted property tax digest of the local school system to the state auditor. The state auditor shall take any steps necessary to make a determination of the correctness of the digest and to notify all interested parties of the determination within 45 days after receiving the request questioning the correctness of the digest.
  (2)
    (A) If any party questioning the correctness of the digest is dissatisfied with the determination made by the state auditor pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, the party shall have the right, which must be exercised within 15 days after being notified of the determination made by the state auditor, to refer in writing the question of the correctness of the digest to a board of arbitrators.
    (B) Each board of arbitrators shall consist of three members, one to be chosen by the state auditor within 15 days after receipt of a written complaint, one to be chosen by the complaining party at the time of requesting the arbitration, and one to be chosen within 15 days after selection of the first two members by the first two members of the board. In the event the two arbitrators cannot agree on a third member, the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of Georgia shall appoint the third member upon petition of either party with notice to the opposing party.
    (C) The board of arbitrators or a majority of the board within 15 days after appointment of the full board shall render its decision regarding the correctness of the digest in question and, if correction of the digest is required, regarding the extent and manner in which the digest should be corrected. The decision of the board shall be final.
    (D) The state auditor shall correct the digest in question in accordance with the decision of the board of arbitrators and shall report the corrections to the parties entitled to receive such information under this Code section.
    (E) Each member of the board of arbitrators shall subscribe to an oath to perform faithfully and impartially the duties required in connection with the controversy concerning the correctness of the digest in question and to render a decision within the time required. Each member of the board of arbitrators shall be paid a sum not to exceed $250.00 for each appeal heard. In addition, each member of the board shall receive the same daily expense allowance as is provided for each member of the General Assembly and actual transportation costs when traveling by public carrier or the legal mileage rate when traveling by personal automobile. All costs of arbitration of matters arising under this Code section shall be shared and paid equally by the Department of Audits and Accounts and by the governing authority requesting the arbitration.
  (3) Upon receiving notice that the current equalized adjusted property tax digest of any local school system is being questioned pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, the state auditor shall notify the State Board of Education that the digest is being questioned. No computations shall be made on the basis of a questioned digest under Article 6 of Chapter 2 of Title 20, the "Quality Basic Education Act," until the digest has been corrected, if necessary, pursuant to this subsection.
(g) The commissioner shall provide to the state auditor such digest information as is needed in the calculation of the equalized adjusted property tax digests. Such information shall be provided for each county and for each local school system. For independent school systems in municipalities authorized to assess property in excess of 40 percent of fair market value pursuant to Code Section 48-5-7, the commissioner shall provide digest information to the state auditor at the assessment ratios utilized by both the municipal government and the county government or governments in which the municipality is located. If revision is made to the digest of any county or any portion of a county comprising a local school system following the initial reporting of the digest to the state auditor, the commissioner shall report any such revision to the state auditor.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 379,§ 1-4, eff. 1/1/2025, app. to taxable years beginning on or after 1/1/2025.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 251,§ 2, eff. 5/7/2019.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 193,§ 11, eff. 1/1/2016.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 9,§ 3, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 364,§ 1, eff. 5/30/2007.
See 2024 Ga. Laws 379, § 4-1.
