# § 48-5-440. Definitions

(1) "Antique or hobby or special interest motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle which is 25 years old or older as indicated by the model year or a motor vehicle which has been designed and manufactured to resemble an antique or historical vehicle.
(1.1) "Commercial vehicle" means a truck, truck-tractor, trailer, or semitrailer which is a commercial vehicle:
  (A) Registered or registerable under the International Registration Plan pursuant to Code Section 40-2-88; or
  (B) Would otherwise be registerable under the International Registration Plan pursuant to Code Section 40-2-88 except that such vehicle is only engaged in intrastate commerce.
(2) "Driver educational motor vehicle" means a motor vehicle which is furnished and assigned to a public school in this state for use by the school in a program of driver education when the assignment is authorized and approved by the local board of education.
(2.1) "Initial registration period" has the same meaning as provided in paragraph (.1) of subsection (a) of Code Section 40-2-21.
(3) "Mobile homes" means manufactured homes and relocatable homes as defined in Part 2 of Article 2 of Chapter 2 of Title 8. Any mobile home which qualifies the taxpayer for a homestead exemption under the laws of this state shall not be considered a mobile home nor subject to this article. This article shall not apply to dealers engaged in the business of selling mobile homes at wholesale or retail and every mobile home owned in this state on January 1 by a dealer shall be subject to ad valorem taxation in the same manner as other taxable tangible personal property.
(4) "Motor vehicle" means a vehicle which is designed primarily for use upon the public roads. Such term shall not include heavy-duty equipment as defined in paragraph (2) of Code Section 48-5-500 which is owned by a nonresident and operated in this state.
(5) "Owner" has the same meaning as provided in paragraph (.2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 40-2-21.
(6) "Registration period" has the same meaning as provided in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of Code Section 40-2-21.
