# § 48-5-154. Annual accounting reports; citations for default, negligence, or bad faith; approval in whole or in part

Annually on or before April 20, unless the time is extended by the commissioner for cause which the commissioner deems sufficient, each tax collector or tax commissioner shall make and file an accounting with the commissioner as to state taxes and with the governing authority of his county as to county taxes for the preceding year, in which the accounts of the tax collector or tax commissioner shall be fully stated and uncollected items on the digest of the preceding year shall be listed in detail. The tax collector or tax commissioner shall set opposite each item the reason why the item has not been collected and the name of the officer in whose hands the tax execution is or, if no execution has been issued, the reason why it has not been issued, and such further information as the commissioner or the county governing authority, as the case may be, shall require. If the commissioner or the county governing authority finds that all collections made up to the date of the accounting have been properly accounted for by the tax collector or tax commissioner, an order to that effect shall be entered by the commissioner or the county governing authority. If it appears that there is any default in accounting for collections made, the tax collector or tax commissioner and his sureties shall be promptly cited as provided by law to make good the default. The commissioner and the county governing authority shall have the jurisdiction and power to correct all errors in the digests, to order abatement or cancellation of taxes erroneously assessed, and to make other adjustments in the digests of a similar nature and to reflect the same in the account as stated. Regarding uncollected items not relieved against in the manner stated, the commissioner or the county governing authority, as the case may be, shall ascertain whether failure to collect the item or any part of the item has been due to negligence or bad faith on the part of the tax collector or tax commissioner. If the commissioner or the county governing authority is of the opinion that there is sufficient evidence of negligence or bad faith to justify a citation as for a default, a citation shall be issued against the tax collector or tax commissioner and his sureties. Otherwise, and unless a default appears in the proper accounting for collections made by the tax collector or tax commissioner, the accounts of the tax collector or tax commissioner shall be approved. If an account is disapproved in part, if there are uncollected items with respect to the failure of collection of which no negligence or bad faith on the part of the tax collector or tax commissioner appears, the commissioner or county governing authority shall approve them and in detail shall state in what part the account is approved and in what part and for what reasons the account is not approved. An approved account or approved part of an account shall be prima facie conclusive of its correctness as of the date of the approval and, unless its correctness is challenged in a citation or in an action brought within two years from the date of the approval, shall be absolutely conclusive of the correctness of the account or of the approved parts of the account as of the date of the approval.
