# § 48-5-504. Self-propelled farm equipment as subclassification of motor vehicle for ad valorem taxation purposes

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Dealer" means any person who is engaged in the business of selling farm equipment at retail.
  (2) "Farm equipment" means any vehicle as defined in Code Section 40-1-1 which is self-propelled and which is designed and used primarily for agricultural, horticultural, forestry, or livestock raising operations.
(b) Self-propelled farm equipment which is owned by a dealer and held in inventory for sale or resale shall constitute a separate subclassification of motor vehicle within the motor vehicle classification of tangible property for ad valorem taxation purposes. The procedures prescribed in this chapter for returning self-propelled farm equipment for ad valorem taxation, determining the application rates for taxation, and collecting the ad valorem taxes imposed on self-propelled farm equipment do not apply to self-propelled farm equipment which is owned by a dealer and held in inventory for sale or resale. Such self-propelled farm equipment which is owned by a dealer and held in inventory for sale or resale shall not be returned for ad valorem taxation, shall not be taxed, and no taxes shall be collected on such self-propelled farm equipment until it is transferred and then otherwise, if at all, becomes subject to taxation as provided in this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 153,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 48, eff. 6/3/2010.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 31, § 1, eff. 1/1/2004.
