# § 48-5-50.1. Claim and return of constitutional or local law homestead exemptions from county taxes, county school taxes, or municipal or independent school district taxes

(a) This Code section shall govern the procedure for returning and claiming homestead exemptions which are created by or pursuant to local laws or constitutional amendments which were not general amendments. If, however, such a constitutional amendment or local law contains provisions which are in conflict with this Code section, then such other provisions shall prevail over this Code section.
(b)
  (1) If the homestead exemption is from county taxes or county school taxes, it shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Sections 48-5-45, 48-5-46, 48-5-49, and 48-5-50.
  (2) If the homestead exemption is from municipal or independent school district taxes, it shall be claimed and returned as provided in Code Sections 48-5-45, 48-5-46, and 48-5-50, except that any reference to the tax commissioner or tax receiver shall be deemed to refer to the municipal governing authority or its designee. The determination of eligibility of the applicant to claim the exemption shall be made by the municipal governing authority subject to appeal to the superior court. Any such appeal must be filed within 30 days after the final determination by the municipal governing authority and shall be a de novo proceeding.
  (3) In addition to the provisions required by Code Section 48-5-46, the application for an exemption under this Code section may provide where necessary for an affidavit as to the age of the owner, the income of the owner and of each member of his family residing on the homestead, and such other information as may be necessary to determine eligibility of the owner for the exemption. The commissioner shall not be required to furnish specialized forms required by this Code section.
