# § 48-5-242. Waiver of penalties or interest due on unpaid taxes

(a) Upon written approval by the governing authority of the county in accordance with subsection (c) of this Code section, the tax collector or tax commissioner may waive, in whole or in part, the collection of any amount due the taxing authorities for which taxes are collected, when such amount represents a penalty or an amount of interest assessed for failure to comply with the laws governing the assessment and collection of ad valorem taxes, when the tax collector or tax commissioner reasonably determines that the default giving rise to the penalty or interest was due to reasonable cause and not due to gross or willful neglect or disregard of the law or of regulations or instructions issued pursuant to the law, and when the interest to be waived accrues on or after July 1, 2002.
(b) In the case of penalties or interest arising from the failure of the taxpayer to comply with the terms, conditions, or covenants required with respect to properties receiving any type of preferential assessment, the tax collector or tax commissioner shall not be authorized to waive any portion of the penalty or interest that represents a recovery by the taxing authorities of any amount by which taxes were reduced as a result of the granting of such preferential assessment.
(c) The waiver of penalties or interest in accordance with this Code section shall be subject to the written approval of the county governing authority either on a case-by-case basis or by a resolution delegating the authority to the tax collector or tax commissioner to make the final determinations. Such resolution may establish rules and regulations governing the administration of this Code section and establish guidelines to be followed by the tax collector or tax commissioner when granting such waivers.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 771, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
