# § 48-5-381. Reserve funds of counties and municipalities

(a) Whenever the governing authority of any county or municipality determines that because of unusual conditions it is impractical to expend the funds raised by taxation for the purposes for which the taxes were levied and that it is in the best interest of the county or municipality and its citizens and taxpayers for public work to be postponed until more advantageous conditions prevail, the governing authority may order as much of the funds as it deems proper transferred to a fund to be known as the "reserve fund" of the county or municipality. The reserve fund may be deposited in the manner provided by law or may be invested in obligations of the United States.
(b) A county or municipal governing authority may transfer from time to time to its reserve fund any accumulated overage in its general fund.
(c) The county or municipal reserve fund shall be held until the governing authority determines that it is practical and advantageous to undertake public work needed in the county or municipality. Upon the determination, the governing authority may order funds transferred from the reserve fund to any of the several funds or to the general fund of the county or municipality. Before any transfer from the reserve fund is made, the governing authority shall give notice of its intention to make the transfer and the purpose for which the transferred fund is to be expended by publication in its official organ in one issue not less than ten days prior to the meeting of the governing authority at which the transfer is to be made.
(d) The existence of a county or municipal reserve fund shall not prevent tax levies from being made by the governing authority for the several purposes authorized by law at such rates as are necessary for the current or anticipated needs of the county or municipality to the same extent the governing authority could lawfully levy if no reserve fund was in existence.
(e) When any county or municipal reserve fund is established, it shall be the duty of the governing authority to expend the fund for needed public work and improvements as rapidly as it deems practical.
