# § 48-5-48.6. Level 2 freeport exemption; referendum

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "Level 2 Freeport Exemption."
(b) As used in this Code section, the term "finished goods" means, for purposes of a level 2 freeport exemption, goods, wares, and merchandise of every character and kind constituting a business's inventory which would not otherwise qualify for a level 1 freeport exemption.
(c) The governing authority of any county or municipality may, subject to the approval of the electors of such political subdivision, exempt from ad valorem taxation, including all such taxes levied for educational purposes and for state purposes, inventory of finished goods.
(d) Whenever the governing authority of any county or municipality wishes to exempt such tangible property from ad valorem taxation, as provided in this Code section, the governing authority thereof shall notify the election superintendent of such political subdivision, and it shall be the duty of said election superintendent to issue the call for an election for the purpose of submitting to the electors of the political subdivision the question of whether such exemption shall be granted. The referendum ballot shall specify retail business inventory as the types of property as defined in this Code section which are being proposed to be exempted from taxation. The election superintendent shall issue the call and shall conduct the election on a date and in the manner authorized under Code Section 21-2-540.
(e) The governing authority of any county or municipality wherein an exemption has been approved by the voters as provided in this Code section may, by appropriate resolution, a copy of which shall be immediately transmitted to the state revenue commissioner, exempt from taxation 20 percent, 40 percent, 60 percent, 80 percent, or all of the value of such tangible personal property as defined in this Code section; provided, however, that, once an exemption has been granted, no reduction in the percent of the value of such property to be exempted may be made until and unless such exemption is revoked or repealed as provided in this Code section. An increase in the percent of the value of the property to be exempted may be accomplished by appropriate resolution of the governing authority of such county or municipality, and a copy thereof shall be immediately transmitted to the state revenue commissioner, provided that such increase shall be in increments of 20 percent, 40 percent, 60 percent, or 80 percent of the value of such tangible personal property as defined in this Code section, within the discretion of such governing authority.
(f)
  (1) If more than one-half of the votes cast on such question are in favor of such exemption, then such exemption may be granted by the governing authority commencing on the first day of any ensuing calendar year; otherwise, such exemption may not be granted. This paragraph is intended to clearly provide that following approval of such exemption in such referendum, such exemption may be granted on the first day of any calendar year following the year in which such referendum was conducted. This paragraph shall not be construed to imply that the granting of such exemption could not previously be delayed to any such calendar year.
  (2) Exemptions may only be revoked by a referendum election called and conducted as provided in this Code section, provided that the call for such referendum shall not be issued within five years from the date such exemptions were first granted and, if the results of said election are in favor of the revocation of such exemptions, then such revocation shall be effective only at the end of a five-year period from the date of such referendum.
(g) Level 2 freeport exemptions effected pursuant to this Code section may be granted either in lieu of or in addition to level 1 freeport exemptions under Code Section 48-5-48.2.
(h) The commissioner shall by regulation adopt uniform procedures and forms for the use of local officials in the administration of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 606,§ 3, eff. 4/17/2012.
