# § 48-5-126.1. Training classes for county tax collectors and tax commissioners

(a)
  (1) It shall be the responsibility of each county tax collector or tax commissioner in this state who has never served in such office prior to January 1, 1982, to attend 40 hours of training classes pertaining to all areas of county taxation, particularly property taxation and motor vehicle titling and registration, during the initial term of office served by such local tax official.
  (2) Of the 40 hours of required training classes, 20 hours of such classes shall be attended during the period between the election of the local tax official and the date such official assumes office.
  (3) The remaining 20 hours of required training classes shall be attended during the first year of the local tax official's initial term of office (unless sickness, emergency, or some other unforeseen circumstance prohibits attendance during that year) at the seminar on county taxation and related matters held at the University of Georgia under the supervision of the Georgia Center for Continuing Education.
(b) In the event a county tax collector or tax commissioner who has never served in such office prior to January 1, 1982, assumes the office during a regular term of office, such local tax official shall be required to obtain special training and instruction from the Department of Revenue in lieu of the training requirements of subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) Beginning January 1, 2005, each county tax collector or tax commissioner shall be required to attend 15 hours of training classes on county tax administration, property taxation, motor vehicle titling and registration, or related matters during each year of service as a county tax collector or tax commissioner. For the purposes of satisfying the requirements of this subsection, credit will be given for attendance of the county taxation seminar conducted by the University of Georgia under the supervision of the Georgia Center for Continuing Education or any seminar conducted by the Department of Revenue, the Georgia Association of Tax Officials, or other similarly qualified organization of affiliated tax officials, or certain management, supervisory, leadership, or accounting seminars that qualify for continuing education credits. This training shall be generally devoted to contemporary business and taxation practices and shall be germane to the duties and operational functions of the office of county tax collector or tax commissioner. This subsection shall not apply to a county tax collector or tax commissioner who is serving the first year of such official's initial term of office.
(d) The costs of attending the training classes required by this Code section shall be met by the payment of registration fees by each local tax official attending such classes. Each local tax official shall be reimbursed by such official's county for the amount of such fees and related travel expenses.
(e) The instructors for the training classes required by this Code section shall consist of representatives of the Department of Revenue, the Georgia Association of Tax Officials or other similarly qualified organization of affiliated tax officials, the Georgia Center for Continuing Education, or any other qualified persons with expertise in the field of county tax administration, property taxation, motor vehicle titling and registration, or related matters.
(f) The state revenue commissioner may adopt and enforce reasonable rules and regulations governing the establishment and administration of the training classes provided for by this Code section.
(g) The state revenue commissioner is authorized to work with officials and personnel of the Georgia Center for Continuing Education in establishing the training classes to be held at that institution.
(h) Any county tax collector or tax commissioner who, without good cause such as sickness or other emergency, fails to comply with the training requirements of this Code section may be subject to removal from office by the Governor.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 48, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 29-1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 723, § 1, eff. 5/17/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 48, eff. 4/18/2002.
