# § 48-5-48.5. Level 2 freeport exemption; application; filing; renewal

(a) Any person, firm, or corporation seeking a level 2 freeport exemption from ad valorem taxation of certain tangible personal property inventory when such exemption has been authorized by the governing authority of any county or municipality after approval of the electors of such county or municipality pursuant to the authority of the Constitution of Georgia and Code Section 48-5-48.6 shall file a written application and summary, as prescribed by the department, of property with the county board of tax assessors on forms furnished by such board. Such application shall be filed in the year in which exemption from taxation is sought no later than the date on which the tax receiver or tax commissioner of the county in which the property is located closes the books for the return of taxes.
(b) The application for the level 2 freeport exemption shall provide for a summary, as prescribed by the department, of the inventory of finished goods held by one in the business of making sales of such goods in this state.
(c)
  (1) For purposes of this subsection, the term "file properly" shall mean and include the timely filing of the application and complete summary, as prescribed by the department, of the inventory for which exemption is sought on or before the due date specified in subsection (a) of this Code section. Any clerical error, including, but not limited to, a typographical error, scrivener's error, or any unintentional immaterial error or omission in the application shall not be construed as a failure to file properly.
  (2) The failure to file properly the application and summary, as prescribed by the department, shall constitute a waiver of the exemption on the part of the person, firm, or corporation failing to make the application for such exemption for that year as follows:
    (A) The failure to report any inventory for which such exemption is sought in the summary, as prescribed by the department, provided for in the application shall constitute a waiver of the exemption on the part of the person, firm, or corporation failing to so report for that taxable year in an amount equal to the difference between fair market value of the inventory as reported and the fair market value finally determined to be applicable to the inventory for which the exemption is sought; and
    (B) The failure to file timely such application and summary, as prescribed by the department, shall constitute a waiver of the exemption until the first day of the month following the month such application and summary, as prescribed by the department, are filed properly with the county tax assessor; provided, however, that unless the application and schedule are filed on or before June 1 of such year, the exemption shall be waived for that entire year.
(d) Upon receiving the application required by this Code section, the county board of tax assessors shall determine the eligibility of all types of tangible personal property listed on the application. If any property has been listed which the board believes is not eligible for the exemption, the board shall issue a letter notifying the applicant that all or a portion of the application has been denied. The denial letter shall list the type and total fair market value of all property listed on the application for which the exemption has been approved and the type and total fair market value of all property listed on the application for which the exemption has been denied. The applicant shall have the right to appeal from the denial of the exemption for any property listed, and such appeal shall proceed as provided in Code Section 48-5-311. Except as otherwise provided in subparagraph (c)(2)(A) of this Code section, the county board of assessors shall not send a second letter of notification denying the exemption of all or a portion of such property listed on the application on new grounds that could and should have been discerned at the time the initial denial letter was issued.
(e) If the level 2 freeport exemption has been granted to a taxpayer for a taxable year, the county board of tax assessors shall issue a notice of renewal to the taxpayer for the immediately following taxable year. Such notice of renewal shall be issued not later than January 15 of such immediately following taxable year to facilitate the filing of a timely application and summary, as prescribed by the department, by the taxpayer for such taxable year.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 492,§ 3, eff. 5/8/2018.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 606,§ 3, eff. 4/17/2012.
