# § 48-5-441. Classification of motor vehicles and mobile homes as separate classes of tangible property for ad valorem taxation purposes; procedures prescribed in article exclusive

(a)
  (1) For the purposes of ad valorem taxation, motor vehicles shall be classified as a separate and distinct class of tangible property. Such class of tangible property shall be divided into two distinct and separate subclasses of tangible property with one subclass including heavy-duty equipment motor vehicles as defined in Code Section 48-5-505 and the other subclass including all other motor vehicles. The procedures prescribed by this article for returning motor vehicles, excluding heavy-duty equipment motor vehicles as defined in Code Section 48-5-505, for taxation, determining the applicable rates for taxation, and collecting the ad valorem tax imposed on motor vehicles shall be exclusive.
  (2) This subsection shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to Code Section 48-5-441.1.
(b) For the purposes of ad valorem taxation, mobile homes shall be classified as a separate and distinct class of tangible property. The procedures prescribed by this article for returning mobile homes for taxation, determining the applicable rates for taxation, and collecting the ad valorem tax imposed on mobile homes shall be exclusive.
(c)
  (1) For the purposes of ad valorem taxation, commercial vehicles shall be classified as a separate and distinct class of tangible property. The procedures prescribed by this article for returning commercial vehicles for taxation and for determining the valuation of commercial vehicles shall be exclusive and as provided for in Code Section 48-5-442.1. All other procedures prescribed by this article for the taxation of motor vehicles shall be applicable to the taxation of commercial vehicles.
  (2) This subsection shall not apply to motor vehicles subject to Code Section 48-5-441.1.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 607,§ I-1-2, eff. 3/1/2013.
