# § 48-5-300.1. Time period for taxation of personal property; extension by consent; refunds

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section or this title, the amount of any tax imposed under this chapter with respect to personal property may be assessed at any time.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by subsection (c) of this Code section or by this title, in the case where a return or report is filed or deemed to be filed for personal property, the amount of any tax imposed by this chapter shall be assessed within three years from the date the original tax bill was paid, unless such personal property in question is the subject of an audit by the board of tax assessors.
(c) Except as otherwise provided by this title, in the case of a false or fraudulent personal property tax return or report filed with the intent to evade tax, or if the property owner has been notified of a pending audit of personal property, the amount of any tax imposed by this chapter may be assessed at any time.
(d) Where, before the expiration of the time prescribed in this Code section for the assessment of any tax imposed by this chapter with respect to personal property, both the board of tax assessors and the person subject to assessment have consented in writing to its assessment after such time, the tax may be assessed at any time prior to the expiration of the agreed upon period. The period so agreed upon may be extended by subsequent agreements in writing made before the expiration of the previously agreed upon period. The board of tax assessors is authorized in any such agreement to extend similarly the period within which a claim for refund may be filed.
(e) If a claim for refund of such taxes paid for any taxable period is filed within the last six months of the period during which the board of tax assessors may assess the amount of such taxes, the assessment period shall be extended for a period of six months beginning on the day the claim for refund is filed.
(f) No action without assessment shall be brought for the collection of any such tax after the expiration of the period for assessment.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 518, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
