# § 48-5-295.2. Independent performance review board; written report; withholding of funds

(a) The commissioner shall appoint an independent performance review board if he or she determines, through the examination of the digest for any county in a digest review year pursuant to Code Section 48-5-342, that there is evidence which calls into question the technical competence of appraisal techniques and compliance with state law and regulations, including the Property Tax Appraisal Manual, with respect to the conservation use value of forest land.
(b) The commissioner shall appoint three competent persons to serve as members of the performance review board, one of whom shall be an employee of the department and two of whom shall be chief appraisers, provided that neither chief appraiser shall be a chief appraiser for the county under review.
(c) The performance review board shall issue a written report of its findings to the commissioner and the county governing authority which shall include such evaluations, judgments, and recommendations as it deems appropriate. The county governing authority shall reimburse the members of the performance review board for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties, including mileage, meals, lodging, and costs of materials.
(d) The findings of the report of the review board under subsection (c) of this Code section or of any audit performed by the Department of Revenue or the Department of Audits shall be grounds for the state to withhold local assistance grants pursuant to Code Section 48-5A-3; provided, however, that any portion of a local assistance grant designated for use by a board of education of any political subdivision shall not be withheld pursuant to this subsection. If the findings in the report of the performance review board indicate that the provisions of paragraph (6) of Code Section 48-5-2 have been knowingly violated by a local government in order to receive a larger local assistance grant than allowed by law, then the most recent local assistance grant requested by the local government shall be withheld by the Department of Revenue. For a second or subsequent offense, the next two requests for local assistance grants shall be withheld by the Department of Revenue.
(e) The commissioner shall promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the administration of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 204,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2013.
