# § 48-5-52.1. Exemption from ad valorem taxation for state, county, municipal, and school purposes of homesteads of unremarried surviving spouses of U.S. servicemembers killed in action

(a) Any person who is a citizen and resident of Georgia and who is an unremarried surviving spouse of a member of the armed forces of the United States, which member has been killed in or has died as a result of any war or armed conflict in which the armed forces of the United States engaged, whether under United States command or otherwise, shall be granted a homestead exemption from all ad valorem taxation for state, county, municipal, and school purposes in the amount of the greater of $32,500.00 or the maximum amount which may be granted to a disabled veteran under Section 2102 of Title 38 of the United States Code, as amended. As of January 1, 1999, the maximum amount which may be granted to a disabled veteran under the above-stated federal law is $43,000.00. For the purposes of this Code section, the term "unremarried surviving spouse" of a member of the armed forces includes the unmarried widow or widower of a member of the armed forces who is receiving spousal benefits from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs. The exemption shall be on the homestead which the unremarried surviving spouse owns and actually occupies as a residence and homestead. In the event such surviving spouse remarries, such person shall cease to be qualified to continue the exemption under this Code section effective December 31 of the taxable year in which such person remarries. The value of all property in excess of such exemption granted to such unremarried surviving spouse shall remain subject to taxation.
(b) In order to qualify for the exemption provided for in this Code section, the unremarried surviving spouse shall furnish to the tax commissioner of the county of residence documents from the Secretary of Defense evidencing that such unremarried surviving spouse receives spousal benefits as a result of the death of such person's spouse who as a member of the armed forces of the United States was killed or died as a result of a war or armed conflict while on active duty or while performing authorized travel to or from active duty during such war or armed conflict in which the armed forces of the United States engaged, whether under United States command or otherwise, pursuant to the Survivor Benefit Plan under Subchapter II of Chapter 73 of Title 10 of the United States Code or pursuant to any preceding or subsequent federal law which provides survivor benefits for spouses of members of the armed forces who were killed or who died as a result of any war or armed conflict.
(c) An unremarried surviving spouse filing for the exemption under this Code section shall be required to file with the tax commissioner information relative to marital status and other such information which the county board of tax assessors deems necessary to determine eligibility for the exemption. Each unremarried surviving spouse shall file for the exemption only once with the tax commissioner. Once filed, the exemption shall automatically be renewed from year to year, except that the county board of tax assessors may require annually that the holder of an exemption substantiate his or her continuing eligibility for the exemption. It shall be the duty of any person granted the homestead exemption under this Code section to notify the tax commissioner in the event that person for any reason becomes ineligible for such exemption.
(d) The exemption granted by this Code section shall be in lieu of and not in addition to any other exemption from ad valorem taxation for state, county, municipal, and school purposes which is equal to or lower in amount than such exemption granted by this Code section. If the amount of any other exemption from ad valorem taxation for state, county, municipal, and school purposes applicable to any resident qualifying under this Code section is greater than or is increased to an amount greater than the amount of the applicable exemption granted by this Code section, such other exemption shall apply and shall be in lieu of and not in addition to the exemption granted by this Code section.
(e) The exemptions granted by this Code section shall apply to the tax year beginning on January 1, 2001, and all tax years thereafter.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 852, § 1, eff. 1/1/2003.
See 2002 Ga. Laws 852, § 2.
