# § 48-5-74. Application for homestead tax deferral; decision by tax official; appeal procedure

(a) The application for deferral shall be made upon a form prescribed by the department and furnished by the appropriate tax official. The application form shall advise the applicant of the manner in which interest is computed. Each application form shall contain an explanation of the conditions to be met for approval and the conditions under which deferred taxes and interest become due, payable, and delinquent. Each application form shall clearly state that all deferrals pursuant to this part shall constitute a lien on the applicant's homestead.
(b) A form of oath shall be provided and shall be administered to the individual seeking the deferral. The oath may be administered by the appropriate tax official, any authorized deputy of the appropriate tax official, or any individual authorized by law to administer oaths.
(c)
  (1) The appropriate tax official shall consider each annual application for homestead tax deferral within 30 days of the date the application is filed or as soon as practicable thereafter. If the appropriate tax official finds that the applicant is entitled to the tax deferral, such official shall approve the application and file the application in the permanent records. If the appropriate tax official finds that the applicant is not entitled to the deferral, such official shall send a notice of disapproval to the applicant giving the reasons therefor within 30 days of the filing of the application either by personal delivery or by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the mailing address given by the applicant, and such official shall make a return on the original notice of the manner in which the notice was served on the applicant and shall file the return among the permanent records of such official's office. The original notice of disapproval sent to the applicant shall advise the applicant of the right to appeal the decision of the appropriate tax official to the board of equalization and shall inform the applicant of the procedure for filing an appeal.
  (2) An appeal of the decision of the appropriate tax official to the board of equalization shall be in writing on a form prescribed by the department and furnished by the appropriate tax official. The appeal shall be filed with the board within 20 days after the applicant's receipt of the notice of disapproval. The board shall review the application and evidence presented to the appropriate tax official upon which the applicant based such applicant's claim for a tax deferral and, at the election of the applicant, shall hear the applicant in person or by agent in such applicant's behalf on such applicant's right to a homestead tax deferral. The board of equalization shall reverse the decision of the appropriate tax official and shall grant a homestead tax deferral to the applicant if in its judgment the applicant is entitled thereto, or it shall affirm the decision of the appropriate tax official. Such action by the board of equalization shall be final unless the applicant, appropriate tax official, or other lienholder files an appeal with the superior court of the county in which the property lies within 30 days from the date the taxpayer receives written notification of the decision of the board of equalization.
(d) Each application shall contain a list, and the current value, of all outstanding liens on the applicant's homestead.
(e) If proof of fire and extended coverage insurance has not been furnished with a prior application, each applicant shall furnish proof of such insurance in an amount which is in excess of the sum of all outstanding liens and deferred taxes and interest with a loss payable clause to the appropriate tax official.
