# § 48-5-478. Constitutional exemption from ad valorem taxation for disabled veterans

(a) A motor vehicle owned by or leased to a disabled veteran who is a citizen and resident of this state is hereby exempted from all ad valorem taxes for state, county, municipal, and school purposes, including any alternative title ad valorem tax assessed pursuant to Code Section 48-5C-1. Such exemption shall be applicable to a single motor vehicle owned by or leased to a disabled veteran. As used in this Code section, the term "disabled veteran" shall have the same meaning as that term is defined in paragraph (1) of subsection (a) of Code Section 48-5-48. The department may issue such rules and regulations as are necessary to implement this subsection.
(b) Once a disabled veteran has established his or her eligibility for such ad valorem tax exemption by being 100 percent totally disabled, he or she shall be entitled to receive such ad valorem tax exemption in succeeding years thereafter. A disabled veteran who claims 100 percent total disability shall furnish proof of such disability through a letter from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.
(c) Once a disabled veteran has established his or her eligibility for such ad valorem tax exemption but his or her disability has not been adjudicated a 100 percent total disability, he or she shall be entitled to such ad valorem tax exemption in succeeding years upon furnishing, on an annual basis, proof of his or her status as a disabled veteran through a letter from the United States Department of Veterans Affairs.
(d) In the event of the death of the disabled veteran who received such ad valorem tax exemption pursuant to this Code section, upon complying with the motor vehicle laws relating to registration and licensing of motor vehicles, his or her unmarried surviving spouse or minor child may continue to receive the exemption.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 28,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2024.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 595,§ 3, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 345,§ 6, eff. 4/26/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 104,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2015.
