# § 48-5-493. Failure to attach and display decal; penalties; venue for prosecution

(a)
  (1) It shall be unlawful to fail to attach and display on a mobile home the decal as may be required by Code Section 48-5-492.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not less than $100.00 nor more than $300.00, except that upon receipt of proof of purchase of a decal prior to the date of the issuance of a summons, the fine shall be $50.00; provided, however, that, in the event such person owns more than one mobile home in an individual mobile home park, then the maximum fine under this paragraph for such person with respect to such mobile home park shall not exceed $1,000.00.
(b)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person to move or transport any mobile home which is required to and which does not have attached and displayed thereon the decal as may be required by Code Section 48-5-492.
  (2) Any person who violates paragraph (1) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine of not less than $200.00 nor more than $1,000.00 or by imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or both.
(c) Violation of subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section may be prosecuted in the magistrate court of the county where the mobile home location permit is to be issued in the manner prescribed for the enforcement of county ordinances set forth in Article 4 of Chapter 10 of Title 15.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 250,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2021.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 193,§ 21, eff. 1/1/2016.
