# § 48-5-148. Interest on unpaid taxes; rate; record of interest and taxes collected

(a)
  (1) Except as otherwise expressly provided for by law, ad valorem taxes due the state or any county remaining unpaid on December 20 in each year shall bear interest at the rate specified in Code Section 48-2-40 from December 20, and each tax collector and tax commissioner shall collect the interest on unpaid taxes and account for such interest in his final settlement.
  (2) The minimum interest payment on unpaid taxes shall be $1.00.
  (3) In the discretion of the tax commissioner, a taxpayer shall have the option of receiving notices of taxes due via electronic transmission in lieu of, or in addition to, receiving a paper bill via first-class mail. The tax bill shall be transmitted to the taxpayer via email, with delivery or read receipt requested, in portable document format using all email addresses provided by the taxpayer, and the date shown on such transmission shall serve as a postmark. In any instance where such transmission proves undeliverable, the tax commissioner shall mail a bill to the address of record as found in the county board of tax assessors' records. Each taxpayer shall be afforded 60 days from date of postmark to make full payment of taxes due before the taxes shall bear interest as provided in this Code section. The time period for payment provided for by this paragraph shall not apply in those counties in which a lesser time has been provided by law.
(b) Each tax collector and tax commissioner shall keep a record showing the amount of interest collected from delinquent or defaulting taxpayers, the date upon which the taxes and interest were collected, and the name of the person from whom the tax and interest were collected.
(c) Any provision of law except Code Section 48-5-511 to the contrary notwithstanding, in each county having a population of not less than 71,500 nor more than 73,000 according to the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census, all ad valorem taxes due the county and the state remaining unpaid on November 20 of each year shall bear interest at the rate specified in Code Section 48-2-40 from November 20. On November 20 of each year, the local tax officials shall issue executions against each delinquent or defaulting taxpayer in their respective counties and shall otherwise comply with subsection (a) of Code Section 48-5-161.
(d) Any provision of law except Code Section 48-5-511 to the contrary notwithstanding, in each county having a population of not less than 71,500 and not more than 75,000 according to the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census, all ad valorem taxes due the county and the state remaining unpaid on October 20 of each year shall bear interest at the highest legal rate provided by law from that date. On October 20 of each year, the local tax officials shall issue executions against each delinquent or defaulting taxpayer in their respective counties and shall otherwise comply with subsection (a) of Code Section 48-5-161.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 193,§ 8, eff. 1/1/2016.
