# § 48-5-600. Definitions

(1) "Bona fide production of trees" means the good faith, real, actual, and genuine production of trees for commercial uses.
(2)
  (A) "Contiguous"' means real property within a county that abuts, joins, or touches and has the same undivided common ownership.
  (B) If an applicant's tract is divided by a county boundary, public roadway, public easement, public right of way, natural boundary, land lot line, or railroad track, then the applicant may make an election at the time of application to declare the tract as contiguous irrespective of a county boundary, public roadway, public easement, public right of way, natural boundary, land lot line, or railroad track.
(3) "Qualified owner"' means an individual or entity that meets the conditions of Code Section 48-5-603.
(4) "Qualified timberland property" means timberland property that meets the conditions of Code Section 48-5-604.
(5) "Timberland property" means tangible real property that has as its primary use the bona fide production of trees for the primary purpose of producing timber for commercial uses.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 256,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 296,§ 5, eff. 1/1/2019 only if an amendment to the Constitution of Georgia is ratified at the November, 2018, general election modifying constitutional prescriptions for forest land conservation use property and related assistance grants, permitting the withholding of a portion of assistance grants to provide for certain state administrative costs, and establishing qualified timberland property as a subclassification of tangible property for purposes of ad valorem taxation.
