# § 48-5-471. Motor vehicles subject to ad valorem taxation

(a) Every motor vehicle owned in this state by a natural person is subject to ad valorem taxation by the various tax jurisdictions authorized to impose an ad valorem tax on property as provided in Code Section 48-5-473; provided, however, that under no circumstances shall such ad valorem taxation be collected more than one time per calendar year with respect to the same motor vehicle. Every vehicle owned in this state by an entity other than a natural person is, except as specifically provided in Code Section 48-5-472, subject to ad valorem taxation by the various tax jurisdictions authorized to impose an ad valorem tax on property as provided in Code Section 48-5-473; provided, however, that under no circumstances shall such ad valorem taxation be collected more than one time per calendar year with respect to the same motor vehicle. Taxes shall be charged against the owner of the property, if known, and, if unknown, against the specific property itself.
(b)
  (1) Any motor vehicle wholly owned in this state by a nonresident member of the armed forces of the United States temporarily stationed in this state as a result of military orders shall not acquire a tax situs in this state and such motor vehicle shall not be required to be returned for taxation in this state. Not more than one motor vehicle jointly owned by such member of the armed forces of the United States together with such member's nonresident spouse, when such nonresident spouse temporarily resides in this state at the temporary domicile of such member of the armed forces of the United States for the primary purpose of residing together as a family with such member of the armed forces of the United States, shall not acquire a tax situs in this state and such motor vehicle shall not be required to be returned for taxation in this state.
  (2) This subsection shall not apply to any motor vehicle that is used in the conduct of a business.
  (3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to excuse the members of the armed forces of the United States or spouses from returning such motor vehicles for ad valorem taxation as may be required by the laws of their state of permanent domicile.
