# § 48-5-295. Terms of office; vacancies; removal by county governing authority

(a) Each member of the county board of tax assessors appointed to such office on and after July 1, 1996, shall be appointed by the county governing authority for a term of not less than three nor more than six years. A county governing authority shall, by resolution, within the range provided by this subsection, select the length of terms of office for members of its county board of tax assessors. Following the adoption of such resolution, all new appointments and reappointments to the county board of tax assessors shall be for the term lengths specified in the resolution; however, such resolution shall not have the effect of shortening or extending the terms of office of current members of the board of assessors whose terms have not yet expired. The county governing authority shall not be authorized to again change the term length until the expiration of the term of office of the first appointment or reappointment following the resolution that last changed such terms of office. If the resolution changing the terms of office of members of the board of tax assessors would result in a voting majority of the board of tax assessors having their terms expire in the same calendar year, the county governing authority shall provide in the resolution for staggered initial appointments or reappointments of a duration of not less than three nor more than six years that will prevent such an occurrence. The county governing authority shall transmit to the board of assessors a copy of the resolution setting the length of terms of members of the county board of tax assessors within ten days of the date the resolution is adopted. Any member of the county board of tax assessors shall be eligible for reappointment after review of his or her service on the board by the appointing authority. Such review shall include education and certification information furnished by the commissioner. Any member of the county board of tax assessors who fails to maintain the certification and qualifications specified pursuant to Code Section 48-5-291 shall not be eligible for reappointment until all requirements have been met. In case of a vacancy on the board at any time, whether caused by death, resignation, removal, or otherwise, the vacancy shall be immediately filled by appointment of the county governing authority. Any person appointed to fill a vacancy shall be appointed only to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term of office and shall possess the same qualifications required under this part for regular appointment to a full term of office.
(b) A member of the county board of tax assessors may be removed by the county governing authority only for cause shown for the failure to perform the duties or requirements or meet the qualifications imposed upon such member by law including, but not limited to, the duties, requirements, and qualifications specified pursuant to Code Section 48-5-295.1 and subsection (e) of Code Section 48-5-262. No member of the board who is also employed by the county as a staff appraiser under Code Section 48-5-262 and no member whose removal is attempted based on this subsection may be removed by the county governing authority during such member's term of appointment until the member has been afforded an opportunity for a hearing before the judge of the superior court of the county for recommendations by the judge of the superior court to the county governing authority regarding such removal.
(c) As used in subsection (b) of this Code section, the term "failure to perform the duties" shall include a finding by the county governing authority that the member of the county board of tax assessors has shown a pattern of decisions in his or her capacity as such member that has provided substantially incorrect assessments or substantially inconsistent tax assessments between similar properties.
(d) The provisions of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be a supplemental alternative to proceedings for removal under Code Section 48-5-296; and the existence of one remedy shall not bar the other.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 813,§ 4, eff. 5/5/2006.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 875, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
