# § 48-5-492. Issuance of mobile home location permits; issuance and display of decals

(a) Each year every owner of a mobile home subject to taxation under this article shall obtain on or before April 1 from the tax collector or tax commissioner of the county of taxation of the mobile home a mobile home location permit. The issuance of the permit by the tax collector or tax commissioner shall, if required by the governing authority of the county in which the mobile home is located, be evidenced by the issuance of a decal, the color of which shall be prescribed for each year by the commissioner. Each decal shall reflect the county of issuance and the calendar year for which the permit is issued. The decal may be prominently attached and displayed on the mobile home by the owner.
(b) Except as provided for mobile homes owned by a dealer, no mobile home location permit shall be issued by the tax collector or tax commissioner until all ad valorem taxes due on the mobile home have been paid. Each year every owner of a mobile home situated in this state on January 1 which is not subject to taxation under this article shall obtain on or before April 1 from the tax collector or tax commissioner of the county where the mobile home is situated a mobile home location permit. The issuance of the permit shall, if required by the governing authority of the county in which the mobile home is located, be evidenced by the issuance of a decal which shall reflect the county of issuance and the calendar year for which the permit is issued. The decal may be prominently attached and displayed on the mobile home by the owner.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 250,§ 2, eff. 5/6/2021.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 193,§ 20, eff. 1/1/2016.
