# § 48-5-405. Levy and collection of tax by municipalities for independent school systems; authorized purposes for expenditures

(a) Each municipality authorized by law to maintain an independent school system may support and maintain the public common schools within the independent school system by levy of ad valorem taxes at the rate fixed by law upon all taxable property within the limits of the independent school system. The board of education of the municipality or other authority charged with the duty of operating the independent school system shall annually recommend to the governing authority of the municipality the rate of the tax levy, within the limitations fixed by law, to be made upon all taxable property within the limits of the independent school system. Taxes levied and collected for support and maintenance of the independent school system by the municipal governing authority shall be appropriated, when collected, by the governing authority to the board of education or other authority charged with the duty of operating the independent school system. Funds appropriated to an independent school system shall be expended by the board of education or other authority charged with the duty of operating the independent school system only for educational purposes including, but not limited to, school lunch purposes. The term "school lunch purposes" shall include payment of costs and expenses incurred in the purchase of school lunchroom supplies; the purchase, replacement, or maintenance of school lunchroom equipment; the transportation, storage, and preparation of foods; and all current operating expenses incurred in the management and operation of school lunch programs in the public common schools of the independent school system. "School lunch purposes" shall not include the purchase of foods.
(b) This Code section shall be cumulative of all general and local laws authorizing municipalities to levy taxes for the support of independent school systems permitted to be maintained by law.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 193,§ 19, eff. 1/1/2016.
