# § 48-5-295.1. Performance review board

(a) The county governing authority may, upon adoption of a resolution, request that a performance review of the county board of tax assessors be conducted. Such resolution shall be transmitted to the commissioner who shall appoint an independent performance review board within 30 days after receiving such resolution. The commissioner shall appoint three competent persons to serve as members of the performance review board, one of whom shall be an employee of the department and two of whom shall be chief appraisers, provided that neither chief appraiser shall be a chief appraiser for the county under review.
(b) It shall be the duty of a performance review board to make a thorough and complete investigation of the county board of tax assessors with respect to all actions of the county board of tax assessors and appraisal staff regarding the technical competency of appraisal techniques and compliance with state law and regulations, including the Property Tax Appraisal Manual. The performance review board shall issue a written report of its findings to the commissioner and the county governing authority which shall include such evaluations, judgments, and recommendations as it deems appropriate. The county governing authority shall reimburse the members of the performance review board for reasonable expenses incurred in the performance of their duties, including mileage, meals, lodging, and costs of materials.
(c) The findings of the report of the review board under subsection (b) of this Code section or of any audit performed by the Department of Revenue at the request of the Governor may be grounds for removal of one or more members of the county board of tax assessors pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 48-5-295.
(d) The commissioner shall promulgate such rules and regulations as may be necessary for the administration of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 204,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 31,§ 6, eff. 4/12/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 875, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
