# § 48-5-138. Cashbook to be kept by tax collectors and tax commissioners; recording disbursements; audit

(a) Each tax collector and tax commissioner shall keep a record in the form of a cashbook in which he shall record all items of cash collected for taxes, the date collected, the amount collected, and the name of the person for whose taxes the cash was collected. All of such items, amounts, entries, and dates shall be entered on the debit side upon the lines and in the columns designated in the record book. The entries required to be made by this subsection shall be entered on the book kept for such purpose within 15 days after payment of taxes is received.
(b) Each tax collector and tax commissioner shall record in the cashbook all items of cash paid out by him to the authorities of the state or counties, designating whether to the state or the counties, to whom paid for either the state or county, the date each amount was paid, and the amount paid. All of such items, amounts, entries, and dates shall be entered on the credit side in the lines and columns designated in the record book.
(c) The tax collector or tax commissioner shall present the record book to the county governing authority at the times prescribed by law for making his report to the governing authority so as to permit checking and auditing of the book, to have the endorsement of the name and authority of the auditing official entered in the book, and to have the date of the entry noted. The checking, auditing, and signature of the governing authority auditing official in the record book shall at no time be construed as, nor is it intended to be, a binding or final settlement with the tax collector or tax commissioner. Each check, audit, and signature shall be evidence only that he has reported to the county governing authority as required by law and that the report checks and is in accord with the record book that the tax collector or tax commissioner is required to keep.
(d) The tax collector or tax commissioner shall make and file an accounting as required by Code Section 48-5-154. The record book shall be preserved by the tax collector or tax commissioner in the tax collector's or tax commissioner's office. The commissioner shall furnish the tax collectors and tax commissioners the book required pursuant to this Code section at the state's expense.
(e) Instead of the cashbook or record book specified in this Code section, a tax collector or tax commissioner is authorized to maintain a computerized list showing the information required under this Code section, which list shall be deemed to be such cashbook or record book for the purposes of this article.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 92, eff. 1/1/2013.
