# § 43-1-3. Duties of division director; serving notice or process on boards through division director

(a) It shall be the duty of the division director:
  (1) To bring together and keep all records relating to the professional licensing boards;
  (2) To receive all applications for licenses;
  (3) With the consent of the board concerned, to schedule the time and place for examinations;
  (4) To schedule the time and place for all hearings;
  (5) To issue certificates upon authority of the professional licensing board concerned; and
  (6) Except as otherwise provided by law, to collect all fees required by law in connection with the licensing of trades and professions under such boards and to remit the same to the state treasurer for deposit into the general fund of the state. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the division director is authorized to retain all funds received as collection fees for use in defraying the cost of collection of fees required under this chapter; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall be construed so as to allow the division director to retain any funds required by the Constitution of Georgia to be paid into the state treasury; and provided, further, that the division director shall comply with all provisions of Part 1 of Article 4 of Chapter 12 of Title 45, the "Budget Act," except Code Section 45-12-92, prior to expending any such funds.
(b) All orders and processes of the professional licensing boards shall be signed and attested by the division director, or his or her designee, in the name of the particular professional licensing board, with the seal of such board attached. Any notice or legal process necessary to be served upon any of the professional licensing boards may be served upon the division director.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 775,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
