# § 43-1-9. Point credit for veterans taking examinations given by professional licensing boards

(1) Any applicant who served on active duty in the armed forces of the United States or on active duty in a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States, including the National Guard, for a period of one year or more, of which at least 90 days were served during wartime or during any conflict when military personnel were committed by the President of the United States, shall be entitled to a credit of five points. Such points shall be added by the person grading the examination to the grade made by the applicant in answering the questions propounded in any such examination;
(2) Any applicant who is a disabled veteran and who served on active duty in the armed forces of the United States or on active duty in a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States, including the National Guard, during wartime or during any conflict when military personnel were committed by the President of the United States shall be entitled to a credit of five points if the disability was for an injury or illness incurred in the line of duty and such disability is officially rated at less than 10 percent at the time of taking the examination. Such points shall be added by the person grading the examination to the grade made by the applicant in answering the questions propounded in any such examination; and
(3) Any applicant who is a disabled veteran who served on active duty in the armed forces of the United States or on active duty in a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States, including the National Guard, during wartime or during any conflict when military personnel were committed by the President of the United States shall be entitled to a credit of ten points if the disability was for an injury or illness incurred in the line of duty and such disability is officially rated at 10 percent or above at the time of taking the examination. Such points shall be added by the person grading the examination to the grade made by the applicant in answering questions propounded in any such examination.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 492,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 9, eff. 5/20/2010.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 249,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
