# § 43-1-35. Expedited license by endorsement for spouses of active or transitioning members of the armed forces; license by endorsement for certain professions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Firefighter" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 45-9-81.
  (2) "Healthcare provider" means any physician or other person licensed or otherwise authorized in this state to furnish healthcare services, including any dentist, podiatrist, optometrist, pharmacist, psychologist, licensed professional counselor, clinical social worker, registered professional nurse, advanced practice registered nurse, licensed practical nurse, registered optician, physical therapist, chiropractor, physician assistant, cardiac technician, emergency medical technician, or paramedic.
  (3) "Law enforcement officer" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 45-9-81.
  (4) "License" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 43-1-34.
  (5) "Other board' shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 43-1-34.
  (6) "Service member" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 43-1-34.
  (7) "State" means a state of the United States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, the United States Virgin Islands, or any territory or insular possession subject to the jurisdiction of the United States.
  (8) "Transitioning service member" shall have the same meaning as provided in Code Section 43-1-34.
(b) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law and except as otherwise provided in Code Section 43-1-34, a professional licensing board or other board shall issue an expedited license by endorsement to any individual who is a spouse of a service member or transitioning service member stationed within the State of Georgia who:
  (1) Holds a current license to practice such occupation or profession issued by another state ;
  (2) Is in good standing in such other state and is not the subject of an investigation or a disciplinary proceeding being conducted by a professional licensing board or other board in such other state; and
  (3) Passes any examination that may only be required to demonstrate knowledge of the laws and rules and regulations of this state specific to the practice of the occupation or profession for which such expedited license by endorsement is being sought.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law, a professional licensing board or other board shall issue a license by endorsement to any individual seeking licensure for a profession other than that of a firefighter, healthcare provider, or a law enforcement officer, provided that such individual has:
  (1) Holds a current license to practice such occupation or profession issued by another state for which the training, experience, and testing are substantially similar in qualifications and scope to the requirements under this state to obtain a license;
  (2) Is in good standing in such other state and is not the subject of an investigation or a disciplinary proceeding being conducted by a professional licensing board or other board in such other state; and
  (3) Passes any examination that may only be required to demonstrate knowledge of the laws and rules and regulations of this state specific to the practice of the profession, business, or trade for which such license by endorsement is being sought.
(d) Subsection (c) of this Code section shall not be used to grant a license by endorsement of a firefighter, healthcare provider, or law enforcement officer to any individual.
(e)
  (1) An expedited license by endorsement provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section shall be issued no later than 30 days from the date of receipt of an application and information and documents that show that all of the requirements of subsection (b) of this Code section have been met. An application for an expedited license by endorsement or a license by endorsement shall only require such information and documentation necessary to verify that the applicant meets the requirements set forth in subsection (b) or (c), respectively, of this Code section.
  (2) Any individual issued an expedited license by endorsement under subsection (b) of this Code section shall comply with the scope of practice, the established standards, and the continuing education requirements for such licensed occupation or profession.
(f) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to be applicable to a license or admission to practice law in this state.
(g) Nothing contained in this Code section shall be construed to invalidate, override, or amend any licensing compact entered into by the State of Georgia or to permit the issuance of a license without verification under Code Section 50-36-1.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 555,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 485,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2025.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 51,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 644,§ 1, eff. 4/18/2022.
Added by 2020 Ga. Laws 607,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Pursuant to Code Section 28-9-5, in 2022, former Code Section 43-1-34.1 was redesignated as Code Section 43-1-35.
