# § 36-68-4. Conditions under which county containing no municipality deemed to constitute a consolidated government; election; consolidated government to constitute a municipal corporation as well as a county for certain purposes

(a) If as of July 1, 2007, or at any time thereafter there exists in this state a county in which no part of any municipal corporation is located, then the governing authority of that county may elect that the county shall thenceforth be deemed to be and constituted as a consolidated government for purposes of the laws of this state. In order to be effective under this Code section, the election by the county governing authority must comply with all of the following conditions:
  (1) The election shall be carried out by the adoption of an appropriate resolution by the county governing authority which must be adopted by unanimous vote of the members of the governing authority voting thereon and ratified by a majority of the electors of the county voting in a referendum;
  (2) The election must be made by the county governing authority within one calendar year after July 1, 2007, or such later date as this Code section becomes applicable to the county;
  (3) The county must at the time of election be providing at least three of the services specified in subsection (b) of Code Section 36-30-7.1; and
  (4) Within 30 days after the adoption of the resolution and ratification by the electors of the county a certification of election must be filed by the county with the Department of Community Affairs in such form and manner as may be specified by the department.
(b) A county which is constituted as a consolidated government under this Code section shall constitute a municipal corporation as well as a county for the purpose of the application of the general laws and Constitution of this state. Such a county may exercise the powers vested in municipalities generally as well as the powers vested in the county by general or local law. When similar but not identical laws apply to counties and municipalities and a determination must be made as to which law applies, the county which is constituted as a consolidated government may elect which law to proceed under.
(c) When a county has become subject to this Code section, no municipal corporation may thereafter be created in or extend into the county.

## History

Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 324,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
