# § 29-7-15. Compensation for guardian; reimbursement for premium on bond

(a) As compensation for service, a VA guardian shall earn a commission of 5 percent on all income of the ward coming into the VA guardian's hands during any months while the VA guardian serves. If the ward receives at least $350.00 per month, the minimum fee shall be $35.00 per month.
(b) In the event the ward's monthly service connected disability compensation payment from the department is discontinued or suspended, the VA guardian, subject to court approval which shall be given unless it appears to the court that the estate is unfairly prejudiced or the payment would be a manifest injustice, shall be entitled to 5 percent additional commission on all sums paid out by the VA guardian from the time the disability compensation payment is discontinued or suspended until the time the disability compensation payment is resumed.
(c) In the event that extraordinary services are rendered by the VA guardian, the court, upon petition and after hearing thereon, may authorize additional compensation payable from the estate of the ward. Notice of the petition and hearing shall be given by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the department office having jurisdiction over the area in which the ward resides not less than 30 days prior to the hearing on the petition. No compensation shall be allowed on the corpus of an estate received from a previous VA guardian.
(d) A VA guardian shall be allowed to pay from the ward's estate reasonable premiums for any corporate surety on the VA guardian's bond.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 766,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2006.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
