# § 29-7-2. Involvement of secretary in proceedings for appointment or discharge of VA guardian; jurisdiction; notification to United States Department of Veterans Affairs

(a) The secretary shall be a party in interest in any proceedings for the appointment or discharge of a VA guardian and in any proceedings involving the administration of the estate of the ward. Written notice of the time and place for hearing on any petition or pleading or in connection with any proceeding pertaining to a VA guardianship pursuant to this chapter shall be given by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the office of the department having jurisdiction over the area in which the ward resides. The notice shall include a copy of the petition or other pleadings and shall be given so as to arrive in due course of mailing not less than 15 days before the date of a hearing or other proceedings, unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
(b) In any proceeding involving a guardianship or conservatorship established pursuant to any other chapter of this title, the office of the department having jurisdiction over the area in which the ward resides may, by giving written notice to the court having jurisdiction over such proceedings and to the guardian or conservator or proposed guardian or conservator, become a party in interest as to the guardianship or conservatorship or proposed guardianship or conservatorship and shall thereafter be entitled to notice as if a guardianship or conservatorship was originally established under this chapter.
(c) The court shall mail to the department office a copy of each order entered in any VA guardianship or other guardianship or conservatorship proceeding wherein the secretary is an interested party.

## History

Former § 29-7-2 repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
