# § 43-34-43. Temporary postgraduate training permits; notifications to board; authorization to adopt regulations

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Program director" means a physician licensed in this state who is responsible for screening, selecting, and supervising physicians enrolled in one or more of an institution's postgraduate training programs.
  (2) "Temporary postgraduate training permit" means a permit issued by the board to a graduate of a board approved medical school or osteopathic medical school who is enrolled in a postgraduate training program deemed acceptable by the board and who does not currently hold a full and unrestricted license in this state.
  (3) "Training institution" means an institution that sponsors and conducts a postgraduate training program approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), the American Osteopathic Association (AOA), or other program approved by the board for the training of interns, residents, or postresidency fellows including Canadian schools.
(b)
  (1) An individual seeking to pursue postgraduate medical training in this state who does not hold a license to practice medicine issued under this article shall apply to the board for a temporary postgraduate training permit. The application shall be made on forms that the board shall furnish and shall be accompanied by the application and permit fees set by the board. Such application shall include the following:
    (A) Evidence satisfactory to the board that the applicant has been accepted or appointed to participate at a training institution in this state in one of the following:
      (i) An internship or residency program accredited by either the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education or the American Osteopathic Association; or
      (ii) A clinical fellowship program at an institution with a residency program accredited either by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education or the American Osteopathic Association that is in a clinical field the same as or related to the clinical field of the fellowship program;
    (B) Information satisfactory to the board that identifies the beginning and ending dates of the period for which the applicant has been accepted or appointed to participate in the internship, residency, or clinical fellowship program; and
    (C) Any other information that the board requires. Nothing in this Code section shall prohibit an individual from obtaining a full and unrestricted license to practice medicine under this article.
  (2) If the applicant meets the requirements of paragraph (1) of this subsection, the board shall issue a temporary postgraduate training permit to the applicant. A temporary postgraduate training permit issued pursuant to this subsection shall be valid only for a period of one year but may, in the discretion of the board and upon application duly made and payment of the renewal fee required by the board, be renewed annually for the duration of the postgraduate training program for a period not to exceed seven years. The board shall maintain a registry of all individuals who hold temporary postgraduate training permits.
  (3) The holder of a valid temporary postgraduate training permit shall be entitled to perform such acts as may be prescribed by or incidental to the holder's postgraduate residency training program, but the holder shall not be entitled otherwise to engage in the practice of medicine in this state. The holder shall train only under the supervision of the physicians responsible for supervision as part of the postgraduate training program. The temporary postgraduate training permit shall authorize the person receiving the permit to practice in facilities affiliated with the postgraduate training program only if such practice is part of the training program.
  (4) Prior to participating in a postgraduate medical training program in this state, individuals must either hold a license to practice medicine or a temporary postgraduate training permit issued by the board or have applied for a temporary postgraduate training permit. The board shall issue temporary postgraduate training permits to applicants meeting the board's qualifications within 30 days of receipt by the board of the application.
  (5) A temporary postgraduate training permit issued pursuant to this Code section shall expire upon the permit holder's withdrawal or termination from, or completion of, the postgraduate training program or upon obtaining a license to practice medicine under this article.
  (6) The board shall have the authority to discipline the holder of a temporary postgraduate training permit in the same manner and based upon any ground or violation enumerated in Code Section 43-34-8.
  (7) By obtaining a temporary postgraduate training permit, the permit holder consents to the release of information pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section from program directors and supervising physicians and authorizes the chairperson of the board to be an agent for service.
(c)
  (1) The board shall have the authority to refuse to issue or renew or to suspend, revoke, or limit a temporary postgraduate training permit based upon any of the grounds or violations enumerated in Code Section 43-34-8.
  (2) The refusal, suspension, revocation, or limitation of a temporary postgraduate training permit shall not be deemed to be a contested case under Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and notice and a hearing within the meaning of such chapter shall not be required. The individual or permit holder shall be allowed to appear before the board if he or she so requests regarding such refusal, suspension, revocation, or limitation.
(d)
  (1) It is the responsibility of the program director for the training program to notify the board upon the permit holder's withdrawal or termination from, or completion of, the postgraduate training program.
  (2) Program directors shall comply with all other reporting requirements which the board by rule and regulation may require.
  (3) Failure to comply with the board's reporting requirements shall be grounds for disciplinary action by the board.
(e) The board may adopt such rules and regulations as necessary to effect the purpose of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
