# § 43-34-173. Requirements for licensure

(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, each applicant for a license to practice as a licensed clinical perfusionist shall meet the following requirements:
  (1) Be at least 21 years of age;
  (2) Submit a completed application required by the board;
  (3) Submit any fees required by the board;
  (4) Have successfully completed a perfusion education program approved by the board, which program has educational standards at least as stringent as programs approved by the Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation (CAHEA) prior to 1994 or the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs (CAAHEP) or its successor;
  (5) Pass a competency examination prepared or approved by the board and administered to qualified applicants at least once each calendar year, which examination may be or may include the complete examination given by the American Board of Cardiovascular Perfusion (ABCP) or its successor; and
  (6) Have met such other requirements as may be prescribed by the board.
(b) The executive director, with the approval of the chairperson of the board, may in his or her discretion issue a temporary license to an applicant, which license shall have the same force and effect as a permanent license until the next regular meeting of the board at which time the temporary license shall become void.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 786, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
