# § 43-34-311. Definitions

(1) "ABGC" means the American Board of Genetic Counseling or its successor or equivalent.
(2) "ABMG" means the American Board of Medical Genetics and Genomics or its successor or equivalent.
(3) "ACGC" means the Accreditation Council for Genetic Counseling or its successor or equivalent.
(4) "Board" means the Georgia Composite Medical Board.
(5) "Examination for licensure" means the ABGC or ABMG certification examination or the examination provided by a successor entity to the ABGC or ABMG to fairly test the competence and qualifications of applicants to practice genetic counseling.
(6) "Genetic counseling" means the provision of services by a genetic counselor to:
  (A) Obtain and evaluate individual, family, and medical histories to determine genetic risk for genetic or medical conditions and diseases in a patient, his or her offspring, and other family members;
  (B) Discuss the features, natural history, means of diagnosis, genetic and environmental factors, and management of risk for genetic or medical conditions and diseases;
  (C) Identify, order, and coordinate genetic laboratory tests and other diagnostic studies as appropriate for the genetic assessment consistent with practice based competencies provided by the ACGC;
  (D) Integrate genetic laboratory test results and other diagnostic studies with personal and family medical history to assess and communicate risk factors for genetic or medical conditions and diseases;
  (E) Explain the clinical implications of genetic laboratory tests and other diagnostic studies and their results;
  (F) Evaluate the client's or family's responses to the condition or risk of recurrence and provide client centered counseling and anticipatory guidance;
  (G) Identify and utilize community resources that provide medical, educational, financial, and psychosocial support and advocacy; or
  (H) Provide written documentation of medical, genetic, and counseling information for families and health care professionals.
(7) "Genetic counseling intern" means a student enrolled in a genetic counseling program accredited by the ACGC or ABMG.
(8) "Genetic counselor" means an individual licensed by the board pursuant to this article to engage in the competent practice of genetic counseling.
(9) "Genetic testing" and "genetic test" mean a test or analysis of human genes, gene products, DNA, RNA, chromosomes, proteins, or metabolites that detects genotypes, mutations, chromosomal changes, abnormalities, or deficiencies, including carrier status, that (A) are linked to physical or mental disorders or impairments, (B) indicate a susceptibility to illness, disease, impairment, or other disorders, whether physical or mental, or (C) demonstrate genetic or chromosomal damage due to environmental factors. The terms do not include routine physical measurements; chemical, blood, and urine analyses that are widely accepted and in use in clinical practice; tests for use of drugs; tests for the presence of the human immunodeficiency virus; analyses of proteins or metabolites that do not detect genotypes, mutations, chromosomal changes, abnormalities, or deficiencies; or analyses of proteins or metabolites that are directly related to a manifested disease, disorder, or pathological condition that could reasonably be detected by a health care professional with appropriate training and expertise in the field of medicine involved.
(10) "NSGC" means the National Society of Genetic Counselors or its successor or equivalent.
(11) "Qualified supervisor" means any person licensed as a genetic counselor under this article or any licensed physician.
(12) "Supervision" means the overall responsibility of a qualified supervisor to assess the work of the genetic counselor with a temporary license, including regular meetings and chart review, if an annual supervision contract signed by the supervisor and the temporarily licensed genetic counselor is on file with both parties. The supervisor's presence shall not be required during the performance of the service.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 232,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
