# § 43-34-312. Requirements for licensure; temporary licensing

(a) A person shall be qualified for licensure as a genetic counselor and the board may issue a license if that person:
  (1) Has applied in writing in form and substance satisfactory to the board and is at least 21 years of age;
  (2) Has not engaged in conduct or activities which would constitute grounds for discipline under this article;
  (3) Has successfully completed:
    (A) A master's degree in genetic counseling from an ABGC or ABMG accredited training program or an equivalent program approved by the ABGC or the ABMG; or
    (B) A doctoral degree and an ABMG accredited medical genetics training program or an equivalent program approved by the ABMG;
  (4) Has successfully completed examination for licensure, approved by the board;
  (5) Has paid the fees required by rule;
  (6) Has met the requirements for certification set forth by the ABGC or the ABMG, if required by the board pursuant to rule; and
  (7) Has met any other requirements established by rule.
(b) A temporary license may be issued to an individual who has made application to the board, has submitted evidence to the board of admission to examination for licensure, has met all of the requirements for licensure in accordance with this Code section, except for the examination requirement, and has met any other condition established by rule. The holder of a temporary license shall practice only under the supervision of a qualified supervisor and may not have the authority to order genetic tests. Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit an applicant from reapplying for a temporary license if he or she meets the qualifications of this subsection.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 232,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
