# § 43-34-198. Application for license for persons currently practicing orthotics or prosthetics

(a) Until July 1, 2007, a person certified as an orthotist, prosthetist, or prosthetist orthotist by the American Board for Certification in Orthotics and Prosthetics, Incorporated or the Board of Orthotist/Prosthetist Certification, or holding similar certifications from other accrediting bodies with equivalent educational requirements and examination standards, may apply for and may be granted orthotic or prosthetic licensure under this article upon payment of the required fee. After that date, any applicant for licensure as an orthotist or a prosthetist shall meet the requirements of subsection (a) of Code Section 43-34-195.
(b) On and after July 1, 2007, no person shall practice orthotics or prosthetics in this state and hold himself or herself out as being able to practice such professions unless he or she is licensed in accordance with this article or is exempt from such licensing. A person who violates this subsection shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 955, § 1, eff. (1) For purposes of promulgating rules and regulations, Section 1 of this Act shall become effective on July 1 of the fiscal year in which this Act becomes effective as provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (2) For all other purposes, Section 1 of this Act shall become effective July 1 of the fiscal year following the year in which this Act becomes effective as provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (3) Section 1 of this Act shall become effective only upon the specific appropriation of funds for purposes of said section of this Act, including without limitation those positions necessary for implementation, as expressed in an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly.
