# § 43-34-29.1. Administrative medicine licenses; definitions; requirements; rules of board

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Administrative medicine" means administration or management utilizing the medical and clinical knowledge, skill, and judgment of a licensed physician capable of affecting the health and safety of the public or any person but shall not include the practice of medicine.
  (2) "Administrative medicine license" means a license issued pursuant to this Code section to engage in the practice of administrative medicine.
(b) An applicant for an administrative medicine license shall meet all of the requirements for issuance of a license under Code Section 43-34-26.
(c) An administrative medicine licensee shall be subject to the provisions of this article and the rules of the board in the same manner as a person holding full licensure under this article; provided, however, that such licensee shall not be authorized to engage in the practice of medicine.
(d) The board shall adopt rules for the issuance of an administrative medicine license that limits the licensee to the practice of administrative medicine. The board's rules adopted pursuant to this Code section shall include the following provisions:
  (1) Eligibility for the license;
  (2) Issuance and renewal of the license;
  (3) The fees applicable to the license;
  (4) Continuing education requirements; and
  (5) The scope of practice of a person who holds the license.
(e) An individual with an administrative medicine license who seeks to practice medicine under an unrestricted license shall demonstrate to the satisfaction of the board that the licensee has the clinical competence to practice medicine under an unrestricted license and meets all applicable eligibility requirements for a license as required pursuant to Code Section 43-34-26 and by the board, which may include, but not be limited to, requiring the licensee to pass any examination or examinations the board deems necessary and requiring clinical experience.
(f) This Code section shall have no effect on any person holding an unrestricted license issued pursuant to this article prior to July 1, 2013; provided, however, that the license of any physician who has agreed to a board order restricting the license to administrative medicine based solely on the failure to meet the licensure requirement to be engaged in the active practice of medicine, upon request of the physician, may be converted to an administrative medicine license and the board order regarding such physician shall be terminated, provided that the only requirement of the order is the restriction to administrative medicine.

## History

Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 267,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
