# § 43-34-124. Patient Qualification Review Board; members; officers; meetings; duties; exception to open meetings requirements

(a) The board shall appoint the Patient Qualification Review Board. Each member of the review board shall be approved for such membership by a majority vote of the board and shall serve at the pleasure of the board. The review board shall be composed of:
  (1) A board certified physician in ophthalmology;
  (2) A board certified physician in surgery;
  (3) A board certified physician in internal medicine and medical oncology;
  (4) A board certified physician in psychiatry;
  (5) A board certified physician in radiology; and
  (6) A pharmacist licensed under Chapter 4 of Title 26, relating to pharmacists, pharmacy, and drugs.
(b) The review board shall elect from its members a chairperson and a vice chairperson. The review board shall hold regular meetings at least once every 60 days and shall meet at such additional times as shall be called by the chairperson of the review board or the chairperson of the board. Each member of the review board shall receive for services for each day's attendance upon meetings of such board the same amount authorized by law for members of the General Assembly for attendance upon meetings of the General Assembly.
(c) The board shall adopt such rules and regulations as it deems necessary for the performance of the duties of the review board.
(d) The review board shall review all patient applicants for the program and their physicians and shall certify those qualified for participation in the program. The review board shall additionally certify pharmacies which are licensed by the state and which are otherwise qualified and certify physicians regarding the distribution of marijuana pursuant to Code Section 43-34-125. Meetings of the review board to certify patients, physicians, or pharmacies shall not be open to the public, as otherwise required by Chapter 14 of Title 50.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 43, eff. 4/18/2002.
