# § 43-34-64. Licensure requirements

(a) Each applicant for a license to practice acupuncture shall meet the following requirements:
  (1) Be at least 21 years of age;
  (2) Submit a completed application required by the board;
  (3) Submit any fees required by the board;
  (4) Be certified in acupuncture by a national certification agency accredited by the National Organization of Competency Assurance and approved by the board;
  (5) Have successfully completed a nationally recognized clean needle technique course approved by the board;
  (6) Have obtained professional liability insurance in the amount of at least $100,000.00/$300,000.00;
  (7) Have passed an acupuncture examination offered by an organization accredited by the National Organization of Competency Assurance and approved by the board; and
  (8) Have successfully completed a degree in acupuncture or a formal course of study and training in acupuncture. The applicant shall submit documentation satisfactory to the board to show that such education or course of study and training was:
    (A) Completed at a school that is accredited by the Accreditation Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine (ACAOM) or other accrediting entity approved by the board: or
    (B) Completed by means of a program of acupuncture study and training that is substantially equivalent to the acupuncture education offered by an accredited school of acupuncture approved by the board.
(b) Reserved.
(c) Before any person licensed to practice acupuncture under this article, who has less than one year of postgraduate clinical experience, may practice on his or her own, such person must engage in one year of active practice under the supervision of a licensed acupuncturist with a minimum of four years active licensed clinical practice. Such supervising acupuncturist may be licensed in Georgia or any other state or country with licensing requirements substantially equal to Georgia's licensing requirements and may accumulate the required four years of active licensed clinical practice in any combination of states so long as the licensing requirements of such other states or countries are substantially equal to Georgia's licensing requirements.
(d) Each applicant for a license to perform auricular (ear) detoxification therapy as an auricular (ear) detoxification technician shall meet the following requirements:
  (1) Be at least 21 years of age;
  (2) Submit a completed application required by the board;
  (3) Submit any fees required by the board;
  (4) Have successfully completed a nationally recognized training program in auricular (ear) detoxification therapy for the treatment of chemical dependency as approved by the board; and
  (5) Have successfully completed a nationally recognized clean needle technique course approved by the board.
(e) The practice of auricular (ear) detoxification therapy may take place in a city, county, state, federal, or private chemical dependency program approved by the board under the direct supervision of a licensed acupuncturist or a person authorized to practice acupuncture by the board who is also authorized to practice medicine under Article 2 of this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 43, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 43, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 247, §1, eff. 4/27/2001.
