# § 43-34-175. Issuance of provisional licensed clinical perfusionist license; supervision of licensee; renewal; revocation

(a) A license as a provisional licensed clinical perfusionist may be issued by the board to a person who submits to the board evidence of having successfully completed an approved perfusion education program required for licensure under Code Section 43-34-173 and upon the filing of an application and payment of the application fee.
(b) A provisional licensed clinical perfusionist shall be under the supervision and direction of a licensed clinical perfusionist at all times during which the provisional licensed clinical perfusionist performs perfusion. The board may promulgate rules governing such supervision and direction but shall not require the immediate physical presence of the supervising licensed clinical perfusionist.
(c) A provisional license shall be valid for two years from the date it is issued and may not be renewed. The provisional licensee must comply with all of the requirements for licensure under Code Section 43-34-173 prior to the expiration of the two-year provisional license period. A provisional licensee may submit an application for licensure as a licensed clinical perfusionist once he or she has complied with all of the requirements for licensure under Code Section 43-34-173.
(d) If a person fails to meet the requirements for licensure under Code Section 43-34-173 on or before the expiration of the two-year provisional license period, such person's provisional license shall be automatically revoked and surrendered to the board.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 543, § 3, eff. 5/13/2004.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 786, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
