# § 43-34-244. Two levels of license; application

(a) There shall be two levels of a license for a cosmetic laser practitioner: assistant laser practitioner and senior laser practitioner.
(b) Any person desiring to obtain a license as a cosmetic laser practitioner under the terms of this article shall make application to the board as follows:
  (1) An applicant for an "assistant laser practitioner" license shall present proof that he or she:
    (A) Holds a current valid license or certificate of registration as a physician assistant, licensed practical nurse, nurse, esthetician, or master cosmetologist, or has previously held a license or certificate of registration as a medical practitioner; and
    (B) Has received at least three laser certificates from attending laser/intense pulsed light (IPL) courses as approved by the board, directly taught by a licensed physician or certified continuing medical education or continuing education educator. If, after review of the application, it is determined that the applicant is at least 21 years of age; has met the minimum educational requirements; is of good moral character; and is possessed of the requisite skill to perform properly cosmetic laser services, a license shall be issued to the applicant entitling the applicant to practice the occupation of cosmetic laser practitioner at the assistant laser practitioner level.
  (2) An applicant for a "senior laser practitioner" license shall present proof that he or she:
    (A) Holds a current valid license or certificate of registration as a physician assistant or nurse or has previously held a license or certificate of registration as a medical practitioner;
    (B) Has at least three years of clinical or technological medical experience, or both;
    (C) Has been or was licensed or nationally board certified as a medical practitioner for at least three years; and
    (D) Has received at least two laser certificates from attending laser/intense pulsed light (IPL) continuing medical education courses as approved by the board, directly taught by a licensed physician or certified continuing medical education or continuing education educator. If, after review of the application, it is determined that the applicant is at least 21 years of age; has met the minimum educational and clinical training requirements to perform cosmetic laser services with indirect supervision; is of good moral character; and is possessed of the requisite skill to perform properly these services, a license shall be issued to the applicant entitling the applicant to practice the occupation of cosmetic laser practitioner at the senior laser practitioner level pursuant to the protocols of a consulting physician.
(c) Any person desiring to obtain a license as an "assistant laser practitioner" who does not meet the requirements of paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall also be eligible for a license as an "assistant laser practitioner" if he or she makes application to the board within nine months of the effective date of this article and presents proof that he or she:
  (1) Prior to the effective date of this article, obtained a minimum of 2,000 hours of experience in administering cosmetic laser service; and
  (2) Has received at least two laser certificates from attending laser/intense pulsed light (IPL) courses, directly taught by a licensed physician or certified continuing medical education or continuing education educator.
(d) Should an applicant have a current cosmetic laser practitioner license or certificate of registration in force from another state, country, territory of the United States, or the District of Columbia, where similar reciprocity is extended to this state and licensure requirements are substantially equal to those in this state, and have paid a fee and have submitted an application, the applicant may be issued a license at the appropriate level entitling him or her to practice the occupation of a cosmetic laser practitioner at that level, unless the board, in its discretion, sees fit to require a written or a practical examination subject to the terms and provisions of this article.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 393,§ 2, eff. 4/22/2024.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 43.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 341,§ 2
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 339,§ 1, eff. .
