# § 43-34-191. Findings of General Assembly

The General Assembly finds that the practice of orthotics and prosthetics in this state is an allied health profession recognized by the American Medical Association, with educational standards established by the Commission on Accreditation of Allied Health Education Programs. The increasing population of elderly and physically challenged individuals who need orthotic and prosthetic services requires that the orthotic and prosthetic professions be regulated to ensure the provision of high-quality services and devices. The people of this state deserve the best care available and will benefit from the assurance of initial and ongoing professional competence of the orthotists and prosthetists practicing in this state. The practice of orthotics and prosthetics serves to improve and enhance the lives of individuals with disabilities by enabling them to resume productive lives following serious illness, injury, or trauma. Unregulated dispensing of orthotic and prosthetic care does not adequately meet the needs or serve the interests of the public. In keeping with requirements imposed on similar health disciplines, licensure of the orthotic and prosthetic professions will help ensure the health and safety of consumers, as well as maximize their functional abilities and productivity levels. This article shall be liberally construed to best carry out these subjects and purposes.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 955, § 1, eff. (1) For purposes of promulgating rules and regulations, Section 1 of this Act shall become effective on July 1 of the fiscal year in which this Act becomes effective as provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (2) For all other purposes, Section 1 of this Act shall become effective July 1 of the fiscal year following the year in which this Act becomes effective as provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (3) Section 1 of this Act shall become effective only upon the specific appropriation of funds for purposes of said section of this Act, including without limitation those positions necessary for implementation, as expressed in an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly.
