# § 43-34-200. Expiration date and renewal period; continuing education; procedure for restoration

(a) The expiration date and renewal period for each license issued under this article shall be set by the board. A license shall be valid for a period of up to two years and shall be renewed biennially as provided by rule of the board. The board shall establish continuing education requirements for the renewal of a license. These requirements shall be based on established standards of competence in the field of orthotics or prosthetics.
(b) A person who has permitted his or her license to expire or who has had his or her license on inactive status may have his or her license restored by:
  (1) Making application to the board;
  (2) Filing proof acceptable to the board of his or her fitness to have his or her license restored including, but not limited to, sworn evidence certifying to active practice in another jurisdiction satisfactory to the board; and
  (3) Paying the required restoration fee. If the person has not maintained an active practice in another jurisdiction satisfactory to the board, the board shall determine, by an evaluation program established by rule, such person's fitness to resume active status and may require the person to complete a period of evaluated clinical experience and successful completion of an examination.
(c) A person whose license expired while he or she was:
  (1) In federal service on active duty within the armed forces of the United States or with the state militia and called into service or training; or
  (2) In training or education under the supervision of the United States preliminary to induction into military service may have his or her license renewed or restored without paying a lapsed renewal fee if, within two years after termination from the service, training, or education except under conditions other than honorable, he or she furnishes the board with satisfactory evidence that he or she has been so engaged and that his or her service, training, or education has been terminated.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 955, § 1, eff. (1) For purposes of promulgating rules and regulations, Section 1 of this Act shall become effective on July 1 of the fiscal year in which this Act becomes effective as provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (2) For all other purposes, Section 1 of this Act shall become effective July 1 of the fiscal year following the year in which this Act becomes effective as provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (3) Section 1 of this Act shall become effective only upon the specific appropriation of funds for purposes of said section of this Act, including without limitation those positions necessary for implementation, as expressed in an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly.
