# § 43-34-313. Renewal, term, and restoration of license

(a) Licenses issued by the board pursuant to this article shall be subject to renewal and shall be valid for up to two years unless otherwise specified by this article and shall be renewable biennially on the renewal date established by the board.
(b) The board shall be authorized to, in conformance with paragraph (5) of subsection (a) of Code Section 43-34-11:
  (1) Require persons seeking renewal of licensure under this article to complete board approved continuing education; and
  (2) Establish the number of hours of continuing education to be completed as well as the categories in which the continuing education is to be completed.
(c) A person who has permitted his or her license to expire or who has had his or her license on inactive status may have his or her license restored by:
  (1) Making application to the board;
  (2) Filing proof acceptable to the board of his or her fitness to have his or her license restored, including, but not limited to, sworn evidence certifying to active practice in another jurisdiction satisfactory to the board; and
  (3) Paying the required restoration fee. If the person has not maintained an active practice in another jurisdiction satisfactory to the board, the board shall determine, by an evaluation program established by rule, such person's fitness to resume active status and may require such person to complete a period of evaluated clinical experience and successful completion of an examination.
(d) A person who notifies the board on forms prescribed thereby may elect to place his or her license on an inactive status and shall, subject to rules of the board, be excused from payment of renewal fees until he or she notifies the board of his or her desire to resume active status. A person requesting restoration from inactive status shall be required to pay the current renewal fee and shall be required to restore his or her license as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section. A genetic counselor whose license is on inactive status shall not practice genetic counseling in this state.
(e) A person whose license expired while he or she was:
  (1) In federal service on active duty within the armed forces of the United States or with the state militia and called into service or training; or
  (2) In training or education under the supervision of the United States preliminary to induction into military service may have his or her license renewed or restored without paying a lapsed renewal fee if, within two years after termination from the service, training, or education except under conditions other than honorable, he or she furnishes the board with satisfactory evidence that he or she has been so engaged and that his or her service, training, or education has been terminated.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 232,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
