# § 43-34-248. Agreement with consulting physician

(a) Any facility providing cosmetic laser services other than hair removal using lasers or pulsed light devices shall have an agreement with a consulting physician who shall:
  (1) Be trained in laser modalities;
  (2) Establish proper protocols for the cosmetic laser services provided at the facility and file such protocols with the board;
  (3) Examine each patient prior to any cosmetic laser service other than hair removal using lasers or pulsed light devices being performed; provided, however, that a consulting physician may delegate the authority to perform such examination to a physician assistant who is a licensed cosmetic laser practitioner, in accordance with a job description approved by the board, or to a registered professional nurse who is also an advanced practice registered nurse as defined in paragraph (1.1) of Code Section 43-26-3 and who is a licensed cosmetic laser practitioner, pursuant to a protocol approved by the board; and provided, further, that in facilities subject to the provisions of Code Section 43-34-249.1 such delegation may be to:
    (A) a physician assistant who is not required to be a licensed cosmetic laser practitioner, in accordance with a job description approved by the board; or
    (B) a registered professional nurse who is also an advanced practice registered nurse who is not required to be a licensed cosmetic laser practitioner, in accordance with a protocol approved by the board; and
  (4) Be available for emergency consultation with the cosmetic laser practitioner or anyone employed by the facility.
(b) Any facility providing cosmetic laser services other than hair removal using lasers or pulsed light devices shall have a supervisor present at the facility or immediately available for consultation and supervision either personally or via telecommunications. The supervisor shall supervise the performance of all cosmetic laser services performed by a person other than the consulting physician. The supervisor shall be a physician licensed under this chapter who is trained in laser modalities or a senior laser practitioner.
(c)
  (1) Any facility providing cosmetic laser services other than hair removal using lasers or pulsed light devices shall post a sign listing the consulting physician's name, emergency contact number, his or her board certification and specialty, and the address of his or her principal place of practice, and indicating whether he or she is presently on site at the facility.
  (2) If the consulting physician is not on site for any period of time during which the facility is open, the facility shall post a sign indicating who is presently acting as the supervisor for the facility and that person's name, emergency contact number, his or her degrees and qualifications, and the type of cosmetic laser practitioner license held.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 43.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 341,§ 3.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1.
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 339,§ 1, eff. .
