# § 43-34-174. License to be property of board; display of license; surrender of license; renewal; expired license

(a) A license is not the property of the holder but is the property of the board. A license to practice perfusion shall be valid for two years. The board may provide that licenses expire on various dates. A person may renew an unexpired license by submitting proof of compliance with the continuing professional education requirements prescribed by the board and paying the required renewal fee to the board before the expiration date of the license.
(b) The license holder shall:
  (1) Display the license in an appropriate and public manner; or
  (2) Maintain on file at all times during which the license holder provides services in a health care facility a true and correct copy of the license certificate in the appropriate records of the facility and keep the board informed of any change of address.
(c) A license issued by the board is the property of the board and shall be surrendered on demand.
(d) Each person licensed under this article shall be responsible for renewing his or her license before the expiration date.
(e) If a person's license has been expired for not more than three months, the person may renew the license by submitting proof, satisfactory to the board, of compliance with the continuing professional education requirements prescribed by the board and any penalty fee prescribed by the board.
(f) If a person's license has been expired for more than three months, the person may not renew the license. The person may obtain a new license by complying with the current requirements and procedures for obtaining a license.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 247,§ 1F, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 786, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
