# § 43-34-21. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Georgia Composite Medical Board.
(2) "Physician" means a person licensed to practice medicine under this article.
(2.1) "Postgraduate training" means a program for the training of interns, residents, or postresidency fellows that is approved by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME), American Osteopathic Association (AOA), or the board.
(3) "To practice medicine," "the practice of medicine," or "practicing medicine" means to hold oneself out to the public as being engaged in the diagnosis or treatment of disease, defects, or injuries of human beings; or the suggestion, recommendation, or prescribing of any form of treatment for the intended palliation, relief, or cure of any physical, mental, or functional ailment or defect of any person with the intention of receiving therefor, either directly or indirectly, any fee, gift, or compensation whatsoever; or the maintenance of an office for the reception, examination, and treatment of persons suffering from disease, defect, or injury of body or mind; or attaching the title "M.D.," "Oph.," "D.," "Dop.," "Surgeon," "Doctor," "D.O.," "Doctor of Osteopathy," "Allopathic Physician," "Osteopathic Physician," or "Physician," either alone or in connection with other words, or any other words or abbreviations to one's name, indicating that such person is engaged in the treatment or diagnosis of disease, defects, or injuries to human beings, provided that the terms "doctors of medicine," "doctors of osteopathic medicine," "doctors of medicine licensed to practice in the state," and similar terms wherever used or appearing in this article or elsewhere shall mean and include only those persons licensed under this article.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
