# § 43-34-29.3. Provider defined; exemption from licensing requirement; reciprocating between states

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "provider" means a physician, physician assistant, or athletic trainer as defined by Code Section 43-5-1.
(b) A provider who is licensed in good standing to practice in another state shall be exempt from the licensure requirements of this chapter or Chapter 5 of this title, as applicable, while practicing in this state if either of the following apply:
  (1) The provider has a written or oral agreement with a sports team to provide care to the team members and coaching staff traveling with the team for a specific sporting event to take place in this state; or
  (2) The provider has been invited by a national sport governing body to provide care to team members and coaching staff at a national sport training center in this state or during an event or competition in this state which is sanctioned by such national sport governing body so long as:
    (A) The provider's practice is limited to that required by the national sport governing body; and
    (B) The services provided by the provider are within the area of the provider's competence.
(c) A provider who is exempt from licensure under subsection (b) of this Code section shall not:
  (1) Provide care or consultation to any person residing in this state other than a person delineated in subsection (b) of this Code section or as otherwise provided by state law; or
  (2) Practice at a health care clinic or health care facility, including an acute care facility.
(d) An exemption under subsection (b) of this Code section shall be valid as follows:
  (1) An exemption under paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall remain in force while the provider is traveling with the sports team but shall be no longer than ten days in duration per sporting event. A maximum of 20 additional days per sporting event may be granted upon prior written request to the board or to the Georgia Board of Athletic Trainers, as appropriate, by the provider but shall not exceed 30 days total; and
  (2) An exemption under paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall remain in force during the time certified by the national sport governing body but shall not exceed 30 days.
(e) The board or the Georgia Board of Athletic Trainers, as appropriate, may enter into agreements with the comparable licensing boards of other states to implement the provisions of this Code section. Agreements shall include procedures for reporting potential license violations.

## History

Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 207,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
