# § 43-34-24. Drug therapy management; modification by pharmacist

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "pharmacist" means a person who meets the requirements specified in Code Section 26-4-50.
(b) A physician may delegate to a pharmacist the authority to modify drug therapy as part of drug therapy management. The physician making such delegation shall adequately supervise the application of his or her order delegating the authority to modify drug therapy. Delegation of such authority shall only be made pursuant to the physician's diagnosis, written order, and drug therapy protocol. Unless a drug therapy modification is a substitution of a generic drug which is pharmaceutically and therapeutically equivalent to the patient's initial prescription drug order pursuant to Code Section 26-4-81, that protocol shall meet the applicable requirements for issuance of prescriptions provided in Code Section 16-13-41 or 16-13-74, whichever is applicable. A drug therapy protocol issued pursuant to this subsection may authorize a pharmacist to dispense a specific drug contained in the protocol as an alternative drug which is not pharmaceutically and therapeutically equivalent to the patient's initial prescription drug order and shall be deemed to be the physician's separate and distinct prescription drug order. All protocols authorized by this subsection shall:
  (1) Identify the pharmacist who is authorized to modify drug therapy and the physician who is delegating the authority to modify drug therapy;
  (2) Indicate the physician's diagnosis of condition or disease state of the patient whose drug therapy may be modified;
  (3) Identify each patient for whom the physician has delegated the authority to modify drug therapy;
  (4) Describe specific responsibilities and parameters for modification of drug therapy and patient monitoring authorized under the protocol;
  (5) Include a statement regarding the types and categories of medication as well as the maximum and minimum dosage levels within the types and categories of medication for which the pharmacist may modify drug therapy including:
    (A) Additional procedures or plans which the pharmacist shall follow when the pharmacist modifies drug therapy; and
    (B) The method of documentation and mechanism of communication of appropriate medical care information or pharmacy care information, or both; description and required frequency of reports which shall include:
      (i) Any problems or complications encountered;
      (ii) A listing of recommendations by pharmacist; and
      (iii) A complete list of each instance in which drug therapy was modified and how such therapy was modified since the last report; and
  (6) Stipulate that each such patient must be notified that the pharmacist is authorized to modify drug therapy pursuant to protocol between the pharmacist and the physician.
(c) A physician delegating the authority to modify drug therapy must be available through communications for consultation, assistance, and direction. A physician may only delegate the authority to modify drug therapy for a patient under the direct medical care and supervision of that physician.
(d) An order delegating the authority to modify drug therapy under this Code section shall not be valid for more than two years from the date such order was issued.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to expand or change any existing authority for a pharmacist to substitute drugs under Code Section 26-4-81.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit hospital pharmacists from participating in drug therapy management by protocol or other legal authority established or approved by a member of the hospital medical staff for the care and treatment of hospital patients.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
