# § 43-34-249. Informed consent

(a) Prior to receiving cosmetic laser services from a cosmetic laser practitioner, a person must consent in writing to such services and shall be informed in writing of the general terms of the following:
  (1) The nature and purpose of such proposed procedure;
  (2) Any material risks generally recognized and associated with the cosmetic laser service to be performed which, if disclosed to a reasonably prudent person in the customer's position, could reasonably be expected to cause such prudent person to decline such proposed cosmetic laser services on the basis of the material risk of injury that could result from such proposed services;
  (3) The name of, degrees and qualifications held by, and type of licenses obtained by the individual who will be performing the cosmetic laser service, and with respect to cosmetic laser services other than hair removal, the supervisor and the consulting physician;
  (4) The steps to be followed after the cosmetic laser service is performed in the event of any complications; and
  (5) With respect to cosmetic laser services other than hair removal, the emergency contact information for the consulting physician and the address of his or her principal place of practice.
(a.1) After receiving each cosmetic laser service other than hair removal, a person shall be informed in writing of the information required by paragraphs (4) and (5) of subsection (a) of this Code section.
(b) It shall be the responsibility of the cosmetic laser practitioner to ensure that the information required by subsections (a) and (a.1) of this Code section is disclosed and that the consent provided for in this Code section is obtained.
(c) Where the consumer is under 18 years of age, the consent of the consumer's parent or legal guardian shall be required.
(d) The board shall be required to adopt and have the authority to promulgate rules and regulations governing and establishing the standards necessary to implement this Code section specifically including but not limited to the disciplining of a cosmetic laser practitioner who fails to comply with this Code section.
(e) Nothing in this Code section shall prohibit the information provided for in this Code section from being disclosed through the use of video tapes, audio tapes, pamphlets, booklets, or other means of communication or through conversations with the cosmetic laser practitioner; provided, however, that such information is also provided in writing and attached to the consent form which the consumer signs.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 341,§ 4, effective only if and when the "Georgia Cosmetic Laser Services Act" becomes effective.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. effective only if funds are appropriated
Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 339,§ 1, eff. .
