# § 43-34-283. Licensure requirements

(a) On and after July 1, 2013, all pain management clinics shall be licensed by the board and shall biennially renew their license with the board. In the event that physicians in a pain management clinic practice at more than one location, each such location shall be licensed by the board, and such license shall be nontransferable.
(b)
  (1) All pain management clinics shall be owned by physicians licensed in this state.
  (2) This subsection shall not apply to any pain management clinic in existence on June 30, 2013, which is jointly owned by one or more physician assistants or advanced practice registered nurses and one or more physicians; provided, however, that any physician assistant or advanced practice registered nurse with an ownership interest in such pain management clinic shall be subject to all requirements which owners of pain management clinics are subject to under this article.
  (3) This subsection shall not apply to any pain management clinic in existence on June 30, 2013, which is not majority owned by physicians licensed in this state; provided, however, that the person or entity that owns such pain management clinic shall not operate more than one licensed pain management clinic within this state; and provided, further, that any such owner shall be subject to all requirements which owners of pain management clinics are subject to under this article.
  (4) Notwithstanding paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection, no person who has been convicted of a felony as defined in paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 43-34-8 shall own or have any ownership interest in a pain management clinic.
(c) The board may establish minimum standards of continuing medical education for all physicians owning a pain management clinic. All other licensed health care professionals practicing in a pain management clinic may be subject to minimum standards of continuing education established by the respective licensing board for the health care professional.
(d) Upon the filing of an application for a license, the board may cause a thorough investigation of the applicant to be made and such investigation may include a criminal background check; provided, however, that the board shall cause a thorough investigation of a new applicant to be made, and such investigation shall include a background check. If satisfied that the applicant possesses the necessary qualifications, the board shall issue a license. However, the board may issue licenses with varying restrictions to such persons where the board deems it necessary for the purpose of safeguarding the public health, safety, and welfare.
(e) Whenever an applicable rule requires or prohibits action by a pain management clinic, responsibility shall be that of the owner and the physicians practicing in the pain management clinic, whether the owner is a sole proprietor, partnership, association, corporation, or otherwise.
(f) The board shall deny or refuse to renew a pain management clinic license if it determines that the granting or renewing of such license would not be in the public interest.
(g) No pain management clinic shall provide medical treatment or services, as defined by the board, unless a physician, a physician assistant authorized to prescribe controlled substances under an approved job description, or an advanced practice registered nurse authorized to prescribe controlled substances pursuant to a physician protocol is on site at the pain management clinic. This subsection shall not apply to a certified registered nurse anesthetist practicing pursuant to Code Section 43-26-11.1, so long as (1) the patient has previously been examined by a physician and such physician has issued a written order for such patient to receive medical treatment or services and (2) the pain management clinic has obtained written consent of the patient prior to any medical treatment or services being provided by the certified registered nurse anesthetist regarding the medical treatment or services to be performed, the risks of the medical treatment or services to be performed, and that a physician may or may not be on site.
(h) The board may enter into agreements with other states or with third parties for the purpose of exchanging information concerning licensure of any pain management clinic.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 307,§ 43, eff. 5/10/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 562,§ 43, eff. 5/8/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 237,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 128,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2013.
