# § 43-34-3. Terms of office; representation of geographic regions; vacancies

(a) The members of the Composite State Board of Medical Examiners, now known as the Georgia Composite Medical Board, in office on June 30, 2009, shall continue to serve out their respective terms and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified. The two new board members added as of July 1, 2009, pursuant to Code Section 43-34-2 shall be appointed by the Governor to serve as members of the board for terms of office beginning on July 1, 2009. The terms of office of the two new members shall be for two years and three years, respectively, with the Governor to specify the initial term of office for each new member at the time of his or her appointment. Upon the expiration of such initial terms, successors to such members of the board whose terms of office expire shall serve for terms of four years each.
(b) Terms of office of members of the board shall be four years. Members of the board shall serve for the terms specified and until their respective successors are appointed and qualified. All reappointments and new appointments shall be made so that the various geographic regions of the state shall be represented. Any vacancy that may occur in the board as a result of death, resignation, relocation from the state, or other cause shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as regular appointments are made.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 471,§ 43, eff. 5/12/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 219,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2007.
