# § 43-34-31.1. Licensing of telemedicine physicians; revocation

(a) The board shall be authorized to issue telemedicine licenses to physicians who are licensed in other states but not licensed in this state to engage in the practice of medicine through telemedicine, as defined in Code Section 33-24-56.4.
(b) To be eligible for a telemedicine license, the physician shall:
  (1) Hold a full and unrestricted license to practice medicine in another state;
  (2) Not have had any disciplinary or other action taken against him or her by any other state or jurisdiction; and
  (3) Meet such other requirements established by the board pursuant to subsection (c) of this Code section as deemed necessary by the board to ensure patient safety.
(c) The board shall adopt rules as to the eligibility for and the issuance of a telemedicine license. Such rules shall include limiting licensees to the practice of telemedicine. A person issued a telemedicine license pursuant to this Code section shall not be authorized to engage in the practice of medicine while physically present in this state with respect to a patient also physically present in this state; provided, however, that this subsection shall not apply to consultation provided in response to an emergency.
(d) A person issued a telemedicine license pursuant to this Code section shall immediately notify the board of any restrictions placed on his or her license or revocation of his or her license by a licensing board or entity in another state.
(e) A person issued a telemedicine license pursuant to this Code section shall be required to comply with all applicable requirements of the laws of this state relating to the maintenance of patient records and the confidentiality of patient information, regardless of where such physician may be located and regardless of where or how the records of any patient located in this state are maintained.
(f) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, a person issued a telemedicine license pursuant to this Code section shall be subject to and shall comply with the provisions of this article and the rules and regulations of the board.
(g) The license of any person who violates this Code section shall be subject to revocation by the board after notice and opportunity for hearing.

## History

Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 156,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2019.
