# § 43-34-37. Persons authorized to perform artificial insemination; civil liability of physician or surgeon

(a) Physicians and surgeons licensed to practice medicine in accordance with and under this article shall be the only persons authorized to administer or perform artificial insemination upon any female human being. Any other person or persons who shall attempt to administer or perform or who shall actually administer or perform artificial insemination upon any female human being shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment in the penitentiary for not less than one year nor more than five years.
(b) Any physician or surgeon who obtains written authorization signed by both the husband and the wife authorizing him or her to perform or administer artificial insemination shall be relieved of civil liability to the husband and wife or to any child conceived by artificial insemination for the result or results of said artificial insemination, provided that the written authorization provided for in this Code section shall not relieve any physician or surgeon from any civil liability arising from his or her own negligent administration or performance of artificial insemination.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 43, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 471,§ 43, eff. 5/12/2008.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 1,§ 9, eff. 2/16/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 31, § 4, eff. 4/11/2001.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 358, § 3, eff. 1/1/2002.
