# § 43-34-151. Practice of respiratory care or representation as respiratory care professional without certification prohibited; exceptions; penalty; application of emergency care law

(a) Unless certified under this article or exempted under subsection (b) of this Code section, no person shall:
  (1) Practice respiratory care; or
  (2) Represent himself or herself to be a respiratory care professional who is certified under this article.
(b) The prohibition in subsection (a) of this Code section does not apply to:
  (1) The delivery of respiratory care by health care personnel who have been formally trained in these modalities and who are duly licensed to provide that care under any other provision of this title;
  (2) The practice of respiratory care which is an integral part of the program of study by students enrolled in a respiratory care education program recognized by the Joint Review Committee for Respiratory Therapy Education and the American Medical Association Committee on Allied Health Education and Accreditation (CAHEA) or the equivalent thereof as accepted by the board. Students enrolled in respiratory therapy education programs shall be identified as "student-RCP" and shall only provide respiratory care under direct clinical supervision;
  (3) Self-care by a patient or gratuitous care by a friend or family member who does not represent or hold himself or herself out to be a respiratory care professional;
  (4) Respiratory care services rendered in the course of an emergency or disaster;
  (5) Persons in the military services or working in federal facilities when functioning in the course of their assigned duties;
  (6) The performance of respiratory care diagnostic testing by individuals who are certified or registered as pulmonary function technologists by the National Board for Respiratory Care, or equivalent certifying agency, as recognized by the board;
  (7) The delivery, assembly, setup, testing, and demonstration of oxygen and aerosol equipment upon the order of a physician licensed under Article 2 of this chapter;
  (8) Persons who perform limited respiratory care procedures under the supervision of a certified respiratory care professional in a hospital or nursing home when the board has defined the competencies required to perform such limited respiratory care procedures; or
  (9) Persons who perform polysomnography under Code Section 43-34-45.
(c) Any person violating the prohibition of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(d) Practitioners regulated under this article shall be covered pursuant to Code Section 51-1-29.
(e) Nothing in this article shall be construed to permit the practice of medicine as defined by this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
