# § 43-34-195. Qualifications for license

(a) To qualify for a license to practice orthotics or prosthetics, a person shall:
  (1)
    (A) Possess a baccalaureate degree from a college or university;
    (B) Have completed the amount of formal training, including, but not limited to, any hours of classroom education and clinical practice, established and approved by the board; and
    (C) Complete a clinical residency in the professional area for which a license is sought in accordance with standards, guidelines, or procedures for residencies inside or outside this state established and approved by the board. The majority of training must be devoted to services performed in the discipline for which the license will be sought and under the supervision of a practitioner licensed in orthotics or prosthetics or a person certified as an orthotist, prosthetist, or prosthetist orthotist, provided that the certification was obtained before the date this article becomes effective; or
  (2)
    (A) Possess an associate's degree from a college or university with specific courses of study in human anatomy, physiology, physics, chemistry, and biology; and
    (B) Have completed at least five years of continued work experience performed in the discipline for which the license will be sought under the supervision of a practitioner licensed in such discipline or certified in such discipline by an agency accredited by the National Commission for Certifying Agencies;
  (3) Pass all written, practical, and oral examinations that are required and approved by the board;
  (4) Be qualified to practice in accordance with nationally accepted standards of orthotic and prosthetic care; and
  (5) Have met such other requirements as may be prescribed by the board.
(b) The standards and requirements for licensure established by the board shall be substantially equal to or in excess of standards commonly accepted in the profession of orthotics or prosthetics. The board shall adopt rules as necessary to set the standards and requirements.
(c) A person may be licensed in more than one discipline.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 243,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 955, § 1, eff. (1) For purposes of promulgating rules and regulations, Section 1 of this Act shall become effective on July 1 of the fiscal year in which this Act becomes effective as provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (2) For all other purposes, Section 1 of this Act shall become effective July 1 of the fiscal year following the year in which this Act becomes effective as provided by paragraph (3) of this subsection. (3) Section 1 of this Act shall become effective only upon the specific appropriation of funds for purposes of said section of this Act, including without limitation those positions necessary for implementation, as expressed in an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly.
