# § 3-13-2. State license requirements to sell alcoholic beverages

(a) A REAP shall be authorized to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises on days and at times authorized in any jurisdiction within this state for the sale of alcoholic beverages, upon obtaining state license from the commissioner for the sale of alcoholic beverages.
(b) Prior to the issuance of a state license, the applicant shall obtain a license for the sale of alcoholic beverages from the local governing authority of any county or municipal corporation in which the REAP of developer, owner, or operator to be issued a state license is wholly or partially located; provided, however, that if said local governing authority is not authorized by ordinance or resolution to issue licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises, then no local license shall be required. If the local governing authority authorizes the issuance of licenses for the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises by resolution or ordinance after a state license has been issued or renewed, the licensee shall have 60 days after such an ordinance or resolution is passed to obtain the local license. If the applicant or licensee fails to obtain such local license, the applicant shall be denied a state license or the state license shall be subject to suspension or revocation by the commissioner.
(c) A state license issued pursuant to this chapter shall entitle the licensee the right to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises on days and at times authorized in any jurisdiction within this state for the sale of alcoholic beverages, regardless of what local ordinance or regulations may be in effect in any jurisdiction in which the REAP is wholly or partially located. The sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises by a licensee on days and at times authorized by subsection (a) of this Code section which differ from those days and times permitted under a licensee's local license shall not constitute lawful grounds for the denial, revocation, suspension, or nonrenewal of said local license by the local governing authority.
(d) A state license issued pursuant to this chapter shall entitle the licensee the right to sell alcoholic beverages for consumption on premises anywhere within the REAP.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 505,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
