# § 3-3-23-1. Procedure and penalties upon violation of Code Section 3-3-23

(a) It is unlawful for any person knowingly to violate any prohibition contained in Code Section 3-3-23, relating to furnishing alcoholic beverages to, and purchasing, attempting to purchase, and possession of alcoholic beverages by, a person under 21 years of age.
(b)
  (1) Any person convicted of violating any prohibition contained in subsection (a) of Code Section 3-3-23 shall, upon the first conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor, except that any person convicted of violating paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 3-3-23 shall, upon the first conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by not more than six months' imprisonment or a fine of not more than $300.00, or both and except that any person convicted of violating paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of Code Section 3-3-23 shall, upon the first conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature.
  (2) Any person convicted of violating any prohibition contained in subsection (a) of Code Section 3-3-23 shall, upon the second or subsequent conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature, except that any person convicted of violating paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 3-3-23 shall, upon the second or subsequent conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term:
    (A) "Criminal history record information" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 35-3-30.
    (B) "Restrict" or "restriction" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 35-3-37.
  (2) Whenever any person who has not been previously convicted of any offense under this Code section or under any other law of the United States or this or any other state relating to alcoholic beverages pleads guilty to or is found guilty of a violation of paragraph (2) or (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 3-3-23, the court, without entering a judgment of guilt and with the consent of such person, may defer further proceedings and place such person on probation upon such reasonable terms and conditions as the court may require. The terms of probation shall preferably be such as require the person to undergo a comprehensive rehabilitation program (including, if necessary, medical treatment), not to exceed three years, designed to acquaint such person with the ill effects of alcohol abuse and with knowledge of the gains and benefits which can be achieved by being a good member of society. Upon violation of a term or condition of probation, the court may enter an adjudication of guilt and proceed accordingly. Upon fulfillment of the terms and conditions of probation, the court shall discharge such person and dismiss the proceedings against him or her. Discharge and dismissal under this subsection shall be without court adjudication of guilt and shall not be deemed a conviction for purposes of this subsection or for purposes of disqualifications or disabilities imposed by law upon conviction of a crime. Discharge and dismissal under this subsection may occur only once with respect to any person.
  (3)
    (A) At the time of sentencing, a defendant may seek to limit public access to his or her sentencing information, and the court may, in its discretion, order that:
      (i) The defendant's records shall be restricted in accordance with Code Section 35-3-37;
      (ii) The criminal file, docket books, criminal minutes, final record, all other records of the court, and the defendant's criminal history record information in the custody of the clerk of court, including within any index, be sealed and unavailable to the public; and
      (iii) The defendant's criminal history record information of arrest, including any fingerprints or photographs taken in conjunction with such arrest, be restricted by law enforcement agencies, jails, or detention centers.
    (B) When considering the defendant's request under this paragraph, the court shall weigh the public's interest in the defendant's criminal history record information being publicly available and the harm to the defendant's privacy and issue written findings of fact thereupon.
    (C) The court shall specify the date that such sealing and restrictions will take effect.
(d)
  (1) Except as provided for in paragraph (2) of this subsection, a law enforcement officer shall arrest by issuance of a citation, pursuant to Code Section 17-4-23, any person accused of violating paragraph (2), (3), or (5) of subsection (a) of Code Section 3-3-23. The citation shall enumerate the specific charges against the person and either the date upon which the person is to appear and answer the charges or a notation that the person will be later notified of the date upon which the person is to appear and answer the charges. If the person charged shall fail to appear as required, the judge having jurisdiction of the offense may issue a warrant or other order directing the apprehension of such person and commanding that such person be brought before the court to answer the charges contained within the citation and the charge of his or her failure to appear as required. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to invalidate an otherwise valid arrest by citation, summons, or accusation of a person who is intoxicated and who has committed an offense under the laws of this state other than that provided for in Code Section 3-3-23. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to restrict the discretion of the prosecuting attorney to use a uniform traffic citation as the formal charging document.
  (2) If the arresting officer provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection has probable cause to believe that a person accused of violating paragraph (2), (3), or (5) of subsection (a) of Code Section 3-3-23 is intoxicated to the extent that he or she poses a danger to himself or herself or to the person or property of another, the arresting officer may effect a custodial arrest of such person in addition to the issuance of a citation, summons, or accusation. The citation, summons, or accusation shall enumerate the specific charges against the person and either the date upon which the person is to appear and answer the charges or a notation that the person will be later notified of the date upon which the person is to appear and answer the charges. In all such cases provided for under this subsection, the provisions of Code Section 17-6-1 shall apply. Nothing in this paragraph shall be construed to invalidate an otherwise valid arrest by citation, summons, or accusation of a person who is intoxicated and who has committed an offense under the laws of this state other than that provided for in Code Section 3-3-23.
(e) A law enforcement officer arresting a person by the issuance of a citation under paragraph (1) of subsection (d) of this Code section may require any such person having a driver's license or instruction permit to deposit such license or permit with the arresting officer in order to ensure the appearance of such person to answer the charges against him or her. The procedures and rules connected with the acceptance of such license or permit and subsequent disposition of the case shall be the same as provided for the acceptance of a driver's license as bail on arrest for traffic offenses pursuant to Code Section 17-6-11.
(f) In addition to any other punishment or sentence, the court may order all persons convicted under subsection (b) of this Code section or sentenced under subsection (c) of this Code section to complete a DUI Alcohol or Drug Use Risk Reduction Program certified by the Department of Driver Services within 120 days of such conviction or sentence. Failure to complete such program within 120 days shall be contempt of court and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $300.00 or 20 days' imprisonment, or both. If the conviction or sentence results from a charge of unlawful possession of alcoholic beverages while operating a motor vehicle, the court shall report such conviction or sentence to the Department of Driver Services within ten days after conviction or sentencing.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 582,§ 2-1, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 190,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 21,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 624,§ 1-1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 510,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 68,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462,§ 3, eff. 4/18/2002.
