# § 3-3-33. Vaporized form of alcoholic beverages and alcohol vaporizing devices prohibited

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Alcohol vaporizing device" means any device, machine, or process that mixes any alcoholic beverages with pure oxygen or other gas to produce a vaporized product for the purpose of consumption by inhalation.
  (2) "Licensed premises" means any premises in which alcoholic beverages are sold or dispensed for consumption on the premises and shall include any premises which are required by law to be licensed to sell or dispense alcoholic beverages for consumption on the premises.
  (3) "Operator" means an owner, license holder, operator, manager, or person in charge of any licensed premises.
(b)
  (1) No person shall purchase, offer for sale or use, sell, or use any vaporized form of an alcoholic beverage produced by an alcohol vaporizing device. This paragraph shall not apply to a product that contains alcohol as otherwise lawfully prescribed by a health care practitioner who is licensed under Title 43.
  (2) No person shall own or possess any alcohol vaporizing device, including but not limited to any machine known as an Alcohol Without Liquid (AWOL) machine. This paragraph shall not apply to any nebulizer or atomizer used to supply a product that contains alcohol as otherwise lawfully prescribed by a health care practitioner who is licensed under Title 43.
(c) No operator shall keep or allow to be kept on the licensed premises thereof any vaporized form of an alcoholic beverage produced by an alcohol vaporizing device.
(d) Any person convicted of a violation of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Any person convicted of a violation of this Code section involving the offer for sale or use to a person under the age of 21 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, except that upon the second or subsequent conviction such person so convicted shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 499,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
