# § 3-3-2. Powers of local governing authorities as to granting, refusal, suspension, or revocation of licenses generally; due process guidelines; fingerprints

(a) Except as otherwise provided for in this title, the manufacturing, distributing, and selling by wholesale or retail of alcoholic beverages shall not be conducted in any county or incorporated municipality of this state without a permit or license from the governing authority of the county or municipality. Each such local governing authority is given discretionary powers within the guidelines of due process set forth in this Code section as to the granting or refusal, suspension, or revocation of the permits or licenses; provided, however, that residency by an applicant within the city or county issuing the permit or license shall not be a requirement by the respective local governing authority if the applicant designates a resident of the city or county who shall be responsible for any matter relating to the license.
(b) The granting or refusal and the suspension or revocation of the permits or licenses shall be in accordance with the following guidelines of due process:
  (1) The governing authority shall set forth ascertainable standards in the local licensing ordinance upon which all decisions pertaining to these permits or licenses shall be based;
  (2) All decisions approving, denying, suspending, or revoking the permits or licenses shall be in writing, with the reasons therefor stated, and shall be mailed or delivered to the applicant; and
  (3) Upon timely application, any applicant aggrieved by the decision of the governing authority regarding a permit or license shall be afforded a hearing with an opportunity to present evidence and cross-examine opposing witnesses.
(c) As a prerequisite to the issuance of any such initial permit or license only, the applicant shall furnish a complete set of fingerprints to be forwarded to the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, which shall search the files of the Georgia Crime Information Center for any instance of criminal activity during the two years immediately preceding the date of the application. The Georgia Bureau of Investigation shall also submit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation under the rules established by the United States Department of Justice for processing and identification of records. The federal record, if any, shall be obtained and returned to the governing authority submitting the fingerprints.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 510,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2006.
