# § 3-3-2-1. Notice to revenue department by county or municipality of violations concerning sale of alcoholic beverages to underage persons

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Disciplinary action" means any citation or arrest arising out of the violation of any law, rule, regulation, resolution, or ordinance of a governmental entity relating to the manufacture, distribution, sale, or possession of alcoholic beverages against a licensee, an employee of a licensee, or any person holding a financial interest in the license of the licensee on the premises or place of business of any licensee.
  (2) "Governmental entity" means the United States government, any state government, any local government, and any department, agency, or instrumentality thereof.
  (3) "Licensee" means any person issued a license pursuant to this title by a governmental entity to operate a bar.
(b)
  (1) Within 45 days of any disciplinary action, the licensee shall notify the department of the details of such disciplinary action, including the date such action was taken, the nature of such action, and any other information required by the department, using a format to be determined by the department.
  (2) The commissioner may impose a fine not to exceed $750.00 for each violation of paragraph (1) of this subsection. A second or subsequent violation of paragraph (1) of this subsection which occurs within three years from the date of the first violation may constitute grounds for the suspension, revocation, or cancellation of such person's license.
(c) Every county or municipality which issues licenses to a licensee authorizing the manufacture, distribution, or sale of alcoholic beverages shall by resolution or ordinance adopt a policy and implement a process by which any disciplinary action against a licensee shall be reported to the department within 45 days of any officer, department, agency, or instrumentality of such county or municipality taking such disciplinary action.
(d) The commissioner shall determine and make available the format for the reporting of disciplinary actions and shall promulgate rules and regulations as to the implementation and use of such reporting method.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 3, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 78,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2016.
