# § 17-17-5. Notification to victim of accused's arrest, release, judicial proceedings, escape, and violations of electronic release and monitoring program

(a) All victims, wherever practicable, shall be entitled to notification of:
  (1) The accused's arrest;
  (2) The accused's release from custody;
  (3) Any judicial proceeding at which the release of the accused will be considered;
  (4) An escape by the accused and his or her subsequent rearrest; and
  (5) If the accused is released from custody and the terms or conditions of such release require that the accused participate in an electronic release and monitoring program, the accused's violation of the terms or conditions of the electronic release and monitoring program, provided that an arrest warrant has been issued for the accused and the accused is prohibited from contacting the victim.
(b) No such notification shall be required unless the victim provides a current address and telephone number to which such notice can be directed.
(c) The criminal justice agency having knowledge of an event described in subsection (a) of this Code section shall provide notice to the victim of such event. Such agency shall advise the victim of his or her right to notification pursuant to this chapter and of the requirement of the victim's providing a current address and telephone number to which the notification shall be directed. Such victim shall transmit the telephone number described in this subsection to the appropriate criminal justice agency or custodial authority as provided for in this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 403,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2010.
