# § 52-9-2. Disposal of sand and sediment originating from water navigation related projects

(a) With regard to all sand that is suitable for beach replenishment originating from the dredging of navigation channels within tidal inlets, as well as the entrances to harbors and rivers:
  (1) Such sand shall be used to replenish the adjacent coastal beaches, if feasible, either by deposition of sand into the nearshore littoral zone or direct placement on affected beaches;
  (2) If such sand is placed elsewhere, then a quality and quantity of sand from an alternate location necessary to mitigate any adverse effects caused by the dredging shall be used to replenish affected coastal beaches; provided, however, that this paragraph shall apply only where beach replenishment is necessary to mitigate effects from the dredging and dredged material removal from the natural river-sand transport-beach system of a specific project and beach replenishment from another source is the least costly environmentally sound mitigation option;
  (3) The disposition of sand shall be completed in cooperation with and, when required by applicable state or federal law, with the approval of the local governing authority and the Department of Natural Resources according to the requirements of Part 2 of Article 4 of Chapter 5 of Title 12, the "Shore Protection Act"; and
  (4) All such activities shall provide protection to coastal marshlands as defined in paragraph (3) of Code Section 12-5-282 and to nesting sea turtles and hatchlings and their habitats.
(b) The Department of Natural Resources and the party undertaking the dredging shall coordinate to determine the option under subsection (a) of this Code section for beach replenishment that is most beneficial to the adjacent or affected coastal beaches, including, where applicable, identifying an alternate source of sand for purposes of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section, after taking into consideration environmental impacts and any limitation of applicable state and federal law.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 52, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 597,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 753,§ 2, eff. 6/1/2003
2002 Ga. Laws 753 provides that the act shall be known as the "Coastal Georgia Beach Preservation and Maintenance Act."
