# § 29-9-15. Compensation for legal counsel or guardian ad litem

(a) In connection with any proceeding brought pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, or 11 of this title, unless voluntarily waived, the court shall award reasonable fees and expenses, commensurate with the tasks performed and time devoted to the proceeding, including any appeals, to any legal counsel or guardian ad litem who is appointed by the court pursuant to the provisions of said chapters or Code Section 29-9-2.
(b) In connection with any proceeding brought pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 2, 3, 4, 5, 7, or 11 of this title, unless voluntarily waived, the court may award reasonable fees and expenses, commensurate with the tasks performed and time devoted to the proceeding, including any appeals, to any legal counsel who is retained by or on behalf of a minor, a proposed ward, a ward, the petitioner or petitioners, or any other party to any proceeding brought pursuant to the provisions of said chapters. As directed by the court in the exercise of its sound discretion and as the court may deem to be in the best interest of the minor, proposed ward, or ward who is the subject of the particular proceeding.
(c) All fees and expenses awarded under subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section shall be assessed and paid in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 29-9-3.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 29, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 233,§ 29, eff. 1/1/2020.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
