# § 29-9-19. Petitioner for guardian or conservator to submit to criminal history records check

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "criminal history record information" means information collected by criminal justice agencies on individuals consisting of identifiable descriptions and notations of arrests, detentions, indictments, accusations, information, or other formal charges, and any disposition arising therefrom, sentencing, correctional supervision, and release.
(b) The court may require a petitioner seeking to become a guardian or conservator, or a nominated guardian or conservator if such person is different from the petitioner, to submit to a criminal history records check. The petitioner or nominee shall submit his or her fingerprints to the Georgia Crime Information Center with the appropriate fee. The Georgia Crime Information Center shall promptly transmit the fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a search of its records and shall obtain a report containing criminal history record information. The Georgia Crime Information Center shall also promptly conduct a search of its records and any records to which it has access. The Georgia Crime Information Center shall provide a report of the petitioner's or nominee's criminal history record information to the court for its consideration in determining the suitability of the petitioner or nominee to serve as a guardian or conservator.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 580,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
