# § 29-9-13. Satisfaction of requirements of authentication or exemplification

(a) Except as otherwise provided by law or directed by the judge with respect to any particular proceeding, the date on or before which any objection is required to be filed shall be not less than ten days after the date the person is personally served. For persons within the United States who are served by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, the date on or before any objection is required to be filed shall not be less than 14 days from the date of mailing or delivering; provided, however, that if a return receipt from any recipient is received by the court within 14 days from the date of mailing or delivering, the date on or before which any objection is required to be filed by such recipient shall be ten days from the date of receipt as shown on the return receipt. For a person outside the United States who is served by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, the date on or before any objection is required to be filed shall not be less than 30 days from the date the citation is mailed or delivered; provided, however, that if the return receipt from any recipient is received by the court during such 30 day period the date on or before which any objection is required to be filed by such recipient shall not be earlier than ten days from the date of receipt shown on such return receipt. For a person served by publication, the date on or before which any objection is required to be filed shall be no sooner than the first day of the week following publication once each week for four weeks.
(b) Except as otherwise provided by law or directed by the judge with respect to any particular proceeding, the date on which any required hearing shall be held shall be the date by which any objection is required to be filed or such later date as the court may specify. When the matter is set for hearing on a date that was not specified in the citation, the court shall send by first-class mail a notice of the time of the hearing to the petitioner and all parties who have served responses at the addresses given by each of them in their pleadings.
(c) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Code section, the date by which objections must be filed or on which the hearing shall be held shall be no earlier than ten days after the date of service on any person who is entitled to personal service.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 766,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2006.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
