# § 2-7-69. Sampling and inspections authorized; notice of contemplated proceedings; search warrants; duty of enforcement; injunctions; written warnings authorized for minor violations

(a) Sampling and examination of pesticides or devices shall be made under the direction of the Commissioner for the purpose of determining whether they comply with the requirements of this article. The Commissioner is authorized, upon presentation of proper identification, to enter any distributor's premises, including any vehicle of transport, at all reasonable times, in order to have access to inspect and sample labeled pesticides or devices packaged for distribution. If it appears upon inspection or examination that a pesticide or device fails to comply with this article or regulations adopted hereunder and the Commissioner contemplates instituting criminal proceedings against any person, the Commissioner shall cause appropriate notice to be given to such person. Any person so notified shall be given an opportunity, within a reasonable time, to present his views, either orally or in writing, with regard to the contemplated proceedings. If thereafter, in the opinion of the Commissioner, it appears that this article or regulations adopted hereunder have been violated by such person, the Commissioner shall refer a copy of the results of the analysis or the examination of such pesticide or device to the prosecuting attorney for the county in which the violation occurred.
(b) Should the Commissioner be denied access to any land where such access was sought for the purposes set forth in this article, he may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction for a search warrant authorizing access to such land for such purposes. The court, upon such application, may issue the search warrant for the purposes requested.
(c) The Commissioner is charged with the duty of enforcing the requirements of this article and the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder.
(d) In addition to any other remedy provided in this article, the Commissioner is authorized to bring an action to enjoin a violation of any provision of this article or any rule or regulation promulgated hereunder. In such an action it shall not be necessary for the Commissioner to allege or prove the absence of an adequate remedy at law.
(e) Nothing in this article shall be construed as requiring the Commissioner to report minor violations of this article for prosecution or for the institution of condemnation proceedings, when he believes that the public interest will be served best by a suitable notice of warning in writing.
