# § 2-7-111. Applicability of article to governmental entities; liability of such entities

(a) All state agencies, municipal corporations, and other governmental agencies shall be subject to this article and rules adopted hereunder concerning the application and use of pesticides.
(b) Employees of agencies listed in subsection (a) of this Code section who use or supervise the use of restricted use pesticides restricted to use by certified applicators or state restricted pesticide uses restricted to use by certified applicators shall be subject to the requirements provided for in paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 2-7-99, provided that the Commissioner shall issue a limited license without a fee to such public applicator who has qualified for such license. Such license shall be valid only when such applicator is acting as an applicator applying or supervising application of pesticides used by such entities. Government research personnel shall be exempt from this licensing requirement when applying pesticides, other than restricted use pesticides restricted to use by certified applicators or state restricted pesticide uses restricted to use by certified applicators, to experimental plots only. Individuals licensed pursuant to this subsection shall be certified commercial applicators for the use of "restricted use pesticides" covered by the applicant's classification.
(c) Such governmental agencies and municipal corporations shall be subject to legal recourse by any person damaged by the application of any pesticide. Such action may be brought in the county where the damage or some part thereof occurred.
