# § 2-7-110. Reports of pesticide accidents; claim of damage; notification; inspection; effect of failure to file; failure to permit observation as bar to claim

(a) The Commissioner by regulation may require the reporting of significant pesticide accidents or incidents.
(b) Any person claiming damages from a pesticide application shall file with the Commissioner, on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, a written statement claiming that he has been damaged. This report shall be filed within 60 days after the date that damages occur. If a growing crop is alleged to have been damaged, the report must be filed prior to the time that 25 percent of the crop has been harvested. Such statement shall contain, but shall not be limited to, the name of the person allegedly responsible for the application of the pesticide, the name of the owner or lessee of the land on which the crop is grown and for which damage is alleged to have occurred, and the date on which the alleged damage occurred. The Commissioner shall prepare a form to be furnished for use in such cases. Such form shall also contain such other requirements as the Commissioner may deem proper. Upon receipt of such statement, the Commissioner shall notify the licensee and the owner or lessee of the land or other person who may be charged with responsibility for the damages claimed and shall furnish such copies of the statement as may be requested. The Commissioner shall inspect damages whenever possible. When he determines that a complaint has sufficient merit, he shall make such information available to the person claiming damages and to the person who is alleged to have caused the damage.
(c) The filing of a report as prescribed in subsection (b) of this Code section or the failure to file such a report need not be alleged in any complaint which might be filed in a court of law; nor shall the failure to file a report be considered any bar to the maintenance of any criminal or civil action.
(d) The failure to file a report as prescribed in subsection (b) of this Code section shall not be a violation of this article. However, if the person failing to file such report is the only one injured from the use or application of a pesticide by others, the Commissioner, when in the public interest, may refuse to hold a hearing for the denial, suspension, or revocation of a license or permit issued under this article until such report is filed.
(e) Where damage is alleged to have occurred, the claimant shall permit the Commissioner and the licensee and his representatives, including the bondsman and the insurer, to observe, within reasonable hours, the lands or nontarget organism alleged to have been damaged, in order that such damage may be examined. Failure of the claimant to permit such observation and examination of the damaged lands shall automatically bar the claim against the licensee.
