# § 2-7-112. Exemptions from article

(a)Farmers. Code Section 2-7-99, relating to licenses and requirements for their issuance, shall not apply to any farmer applying pesticides classified for general use for himself or for his farmer neighbors, provided that:
  (1) He operates farm property and operates and maintains pesticide application equipment primarily for his own use;
  (2) He is not regularly engaged in the business of applying pesticides for hire, amounting to a principal or regular occupation, and he does not publicly hold himself out as a pesticide contractor; and
  (3) He operates his pesticide application equipment only in the vicinity of his own property and for the accommodation of his neighbors.
(b)Veterinarians. Paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of Code Section 2-7-99, relating to license and requirements for their issuance, shall not apply to a doctor of veterinary medicine applying pesticides to animals during the normal course of his veterinary practice, provided that he is not regularly engaged in the business of applying pesticides for hire, amounting to a principal or regular occupation, and does not publicly hold himself out as a pesticide contractor.
(c)Experimental research. Code Section 2-7-99, relating to licenses and requirements for their issuance, shall not apply to research personnel applying pesticides, other than restricted use pesticides restricted to use by certified applicators or state restricted pesticide uses restricted to use by certified applicators, only to bona fide experimental plots.
(d)Persons subject to Structural Pest Control Act. Persons subject to Chapter 45 of Title 43, the "Structural Pest Control Act," are exempt from this article and the regulations issued hereunder with respect to any activities which are regulated under Chapter 45 of Title 43.
