# § 2-7-99. Licensing requirements; applications; issuance; fees; renewal

(a)Pesticide contractor's license.
  (1)Required; additional requirement; fee. No person shall engage in the business of contracting for the application of any pesticide to the lands of another within this state at any time without a pesticide contractor's license issued by the Commissioner for each business location. In addition to the pesticide contractor's license, each business location must maintain, in full-time employment during all periods of operation, at least one certified commercial pesticide applicator. The Commissioner shall require an annual fee of $55.00 for each pesticide contractor's license issued. Any fees collected pursuant to this Code section shall be retained pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-12-92.1.
  (2)Application for license; form; content. Application for a pesticide contractor's license shall be made in writing to the Commissioner on a designated form obtained from the Commissioner's office. Each application for a license shall contain information regarding the applicant's qualifications and proposed operations and shall include the following:
    (A) The full name of the person applying for the license;
    (B) If the applicant is a person other than an individual, the full name of each member of the firm or partnership or the names of the principal officers of the association, corporation, or group;
    (C) The principal business address of the applicant in this state and elsewhere;
    (D) If applicable, the name and address of an attorney in fact pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 5 of this title, the "Department of Agriculture Registration, License, and Permit Act";
    (E) The model, make, horsepower, and size of any equipment used by the applicant to apply pesticides; and
    (F) Any other necessary information prescribed by the Commissioner.
  (3)Issuance. If the Commissioner finds the applicant qualified to engage in the business of contracting for the application of pesticides commercially, if the applicant files proof of financial responsibility as required under Code Section 2-7-103, and if the applicant applying for a license to contract for aerial application of pesticides has met all of the requirements of the Federal Aviation Administration and all aeronautic requirements of this state for operation of equipment described in the application, the Commissioner shall issue a pesticide contractor's license, with any necessary limitations; provided, however, commercial aerial applicators of crop protection products and pesticide contractors applying crop protection products to agricultural crops shall not be required to file proof of financial responsibility as required under Code Section 2-7-103. The license shall expire at the end of the calendar year of issue, unless it is revoked or suspended prior thereto by the Commissioner for cause.
(b)Certified pesticide applicator licenses.
  (1)Certified private applicator's license.
    (A) Required; competency. No individual shall purchase, use, or supervise the use of any pesticide as a private applicator unless he is licensed as a certified private applicator or is acting under the direct supervision of an individual who is licensed as a certified private applicator. The Commissioner shall require the applicant to demonstrate his competency to apply "restricted use pesticides" safely, effectively, and in such a manner as to prevent any unreasonable adverse effects on the environment. Such determination of competency shall be made on the basis of standards and procedures approved by the Environmental Protection Agency in the "Georgia Plan for Certification of Pesticide Applicators."
    (B) Application for license; form; content. Application for a license shall be made in writing to the Commissioner on a designated form obtained from the Commissioner's office. Each application shall contain information regarding the applicant's qualifications and proposed operations and shall include the following:
      (i) The name of the person applying for the license;
      (ii) The complete home address and mailing address of the applicant; and
      (iii) Any other information pertinent to the applicant's operation.
    (C) Issuance. If the Commissioner finds the applicant qualified to use or supervise the use of "restricted use pesticides" as a private pesticide applicator, he shall issue such license, to be effective for a specified period which shall be determined by the Commissioner by regulation. There shall be no fee required for a certified private applicator's license.
  (2)Certified commercial pesticide applicator's license.
    (A) Required; competency. No individual shall purchase, use, or supervise the use of any pesticide as a commercial applicator unless he is licensed as a certified commercial applicator or is acting under the direct supervision of an individual who is licensed as a certified commercial applicator. No person shall commercially apply any pesticide by aerial equipment without a certified commercial pesticide applicator license. The Commissioner shall require the applicant to demonstrate his competency to apply pesticides safely, effectively, and without any unreasonable adverse effects on the environment. Such determination of competency shall be made on the basis of standards and procedures approved by the Environmental Protection Agency in the "Georgia Plan for Certification of Pesticide Applicators."
    (B) Application for license; form; content. Application for a license shall be made in writing to the Commissioner on a designated form obtained from the Commissioner's office. Each application shall contain information regarding the applicant's qualifications and proposed operations and shall include the following:
      (i) The full name of the person applying for the license;
      (ii) The principal business address of the applicant in this state and elsewhere;
      (iii) If applicable, the name and address of an attorney in fact pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 5 of this title, the "Department of Agriculture Registration, License, and Permit Act"; and
      (iv) Any other necessary information prescribed by the Commissioner.
    (C) Issuance; fees; renewal. If the Commissioner finds the applicant qualified to apply pesticides in the classification or classifications he or she has applied for, the Commissioner shall issue a certified commercial pesticide applicator's license. Effective August 21, 1980, all new certified commercial pesticide applicator licenses shall be issued for a period of five years from the date of certification. The fee for the five-year license shall be $90.00. Licenses shall be subject to renewal on the day following expiration, based on such recertification requirements as the Commissioner may establish by regulation.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-5, eff. 5/12/2010.
