# § 2-7-201. Transport of live feral hogs; permit required

(a) No person shall transport live feral hogs anywhere in this state unless authorized to do so pursuant to a feral hog transport permit carried on such person while engaging in the transport of such feral hogs.
(b)
  (1) Upon request by any person, the department shall issue a feral hog transport permit authorizing such person to transport live feral hogs; provided, however, that such permit shall only authorize the transportation of live feral hogs directly to slaughter, to a slaughtering facility, or to any other type of facility approved and licensed by the department, unless otherwise directed pursuant to an order issued by the state veterinarian.
  (2) The cost of a feral hog transport permit shall not exceed $15.00.
(c) The department may require a license for the operation of any facility which holds but does not slaughter live feral hogs. The cost of such license shall not exceed $100.00.
(d) Any fees for licenses collected pursuant to this Code section shall be retained pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-12-92.1.
(e) Any person who violates subsection (a) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature and shall be punished as provided by Code Section 17-10-4; provided, however, that if a fine is imposed pursuant to such Code section, such fine shall be not less than $1,500.00. In addition, any license or permit previously issued under Title 27 to any such person shall by operation of law be revoked and shall not be reissued for a period of three years after the date of conviction. Such person shall be notified of the revocation by the Department of Natural Resources either personally or by a letter sent by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to the name and address indicated on the application for the license or permit, or both, or to the Secretary of State as provided in Code Section 27-2-24.

## History

Added by 2015 Ga. Laws 228,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2015.
