# § 2-7-97. Promulgation of rules and regulations authorized; notice and hearing; restricted use pesticide classifications and state restricted pesticide uses; declaration of pests; reports to Environmental Protection Agency

(a) The Commissioner shall administer and enforce this article. He shall have authority to issue regulations to carry out this article, after a public hearing following due notice to all interested persons, in conformance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Such regulations may prescribe methods to be used in the application of pesticides. When the Commissioner finds that such regulations are necessary to carry out the purpose and intent of this article, such regulations may relate to the time, place, manner, methods, materials, and amounts and concentrations in connection with the application of pesticides; they may restrict or prohibit the use of pesticides in designated areas during specified periods of time and shall encompass all reasonable factors which the Commissioner deems necessary to prevent damage or injury by drift or misapplication to:
  (1) Plants, including forage plants, or adjacent or nearby lands;
  (2) Wildlife in the adjoining or nearby areas;
  (3) Fish and other aquatic life in waters in reasonable proximity to the area to be treated; and
  (4) Humans, animals, or beneficial insects.
(b) In issuing such regulations, the Commissioner shall give consideration to pertinent research findings and recommendations of other agencies of this state or of the federal government. The Commissioner may require, by regulation, that notice of a proposed application of a pesticide be given to land owners in designated areas if he finds that such notice is necessary to carry out the purpose of this article.
(c) For the purpose of uniformity and in order to enter into cooperative agreements, the Commissioner may adopt "restrictive use pesticide" classifications as determined by the Environmental Protection Agency. In addition to those "restricted use pesticides" classified by the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, the Commissioner also may determine, by regulation, after a public hearing following due notice, "state restricted pesticide uses" for the state or for designated areas within the state. If the Commissioner determines that a pesticide use, when applied in accordance with its directions for use, warnings, cautions, and for uses for which it is registered, may cause, without additional regulatory restrictions, unreasonable adverse effects on the environment, including injury to the applicator or other persons because of acute dermal or inhalation toxicity of the pesticide, the pesticide use shall be applied only by or under the direct supervision of a certified applicator or shall be subject to such other restrictions as the Commissioner may determine.
(d) Regulations adopted under this article shall not permit any pesticide use which is prohibited by FIFRA and any regulations or orders issued thereunder.
(e) Regulations adopted under this article as to certified applicators of "restricted use pesticides" as designated under FIFRA shall not be inconsistent with the requirements of FIFRA and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
(f) The Commissioner, after notice and opportunity for hearing, is authorized to declare any form of plant or animal life, other than man and other than bacteria, viruses, and other microorganisms on or in living man or other living animals, which is injurious to health or the environment to be a pest.
(g) In order to comply with Section 4 of FIFRA, the Commissioner is authorized to make such reports to the Environmental Protection Agency, in such form and containing such information, as the agency may from time to time require.
