# § 2-7-113-1. Local regulation of pesticides prohibited; variances from rule or regulation of Commissioner of Agriculture

(a) No county, municipal corporation, consolidated government, or other political subdivision of this state shall adopt or continue in effect any ordinance, rule, regulation, or resolution relating to pesticide use, sale, distribution, storage, transportation, disposal, formulation, labeling, registration, or manufacture. This provision shall in no way prohibit or impair the legal right of any county, municipal corporation, consolidated government, or other political subdivision of this state to issue business licenses or to make zoning decisions.
(b) The governing authority of any county or municipality may, by resolution, petition the Commissioner of Agriculture for a variance from a rule or regulation of the Commissioner because of special circumstances relating to the use or application of a pesticide. If such a petition is received by the Commissioner, it shall be the duty of the Commissioner to notify the President of the Senate, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, and the chairpersons of the Agriculture and Consumer Affairs Committee and Natural Resources and the Environment Committee of the Senate and the Agriculture and Consumer Affairs Committee and the Natural Resources and Environment Committee of the House of Representatives that such petition has been received. The Commissioner shall conduct a public hearing on such petition and issue a decision on the requested variance within 60 days of the receipt of the petition. If a decision is not given within 60 days of the receipt of the petition, the variance shall automatically be granted. The Commissioner may grant a variance requested under this subsection with or without changes.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 2, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 74,§ 2, eff. 4/30/2009.
