# § 2-7-55. Registration required; exceptions; contents of application; fees; renewal; special local needs

(a) Every pesticide which is distributed in this state shall be registered with the Commissioner, subject to this article. Such registration shall be renewed annually prior to January 1, provided that registration is not required if a pesticide is shipped from one plant or warehouse to another plant or warehouse operated by the same person and if the pesticide is used solely at such plant or warehouse as a constituent part to make a pesticide which is registered under this article or if the pesticide is distributed under the provisions of an experimental use permit issued under Code Section 2-7-56; provided, further, that after all pesticides have been classified for "General Use" or "Restricted Use" as required by Section 3 of FIFRA, the Commissioner, by regulation, may require the registration of products on a multiple-year basis of two, three, four, or five years.
(b) The applicant for registration shall file a statement with the Commissioner which shall include:
  (1) The name and address of the applicant and the name and address of the person whose name will appear on the label, if other than the applicant's;
  (2) The name of the pesticide;
  (3) Other necessary information required for completion of the department's application for registration form; and
  (4) A complete copy of the labeling accompanying the pesticide and a statement of all claims to be made for it, including the directions for use and the use classification as provided for in FIFRA.
(c) The Commissioner, when he deems it necessary in the administration of this article, may require the submission of the complete formula of any pesticide, including the active and inert ingredients.
(d) The Commissioner may require a full description of the tests made and the results thereof on which the claims are based on any pesticide not registered pursuant to Section 3 of FIFRA or on any pesticide on which restrictions are being considered. The Commissioner may refuse to consider data he required of the initial registrant of a pesticide use in support of any other application for registration of that same use, unless such subsequent applicant has first obtained written permission to use such data. If data from the original registrant is considered without such permission, the Commissioner shall promptly notify such initial registrant. In the case of renewal of registration, a statement shall be required only with respect to information which is different from that furnished when the pesticide was registered or last reregistered.
(e) The Commissioner may prescribe other necessary information by regulation.
(f) The applicant desiring to register a pesticide shall pay an annual registration fee to the Commissioner for each pesticide registered for such applicant. The amount of such fee shall be established by the Commissioner in an amount not less than $100.00 nor more than $200.00 per annum. All such registrations shall expire on December 31 of any one year, provided that if the Commissioner adopts a multiple-year registration period, the annual registration fee per product shall be compounded for the number of years included in the multiple-year registration. A registration for a special local need pursuant to subsection (i) of this Code section which is disapproved by the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall expire on the effective date of the administrator's disapproval. Any fees collected pursuant to this Code section shall be retained pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-12-92.1.
(g) Any registration approved by the Commissioner and in effect on December 31 or, in case a multiple-year registration period is adopted, on the last day of the registration period, for which a renewal application has been made and the proper fee paid, shall continue in full force and effect until such time as the Commissioner notifies the applicant that the registration has been renewed or denied, in accordance with Code Section 2-7-59. Forms for reregistration shall be mailed to registrants at least 30 days prior to the due date.
(h) If the renewal of a pesticide registration is not filed prior to January 1 of any one year, or by the expiration date in the case of multiple-year registration, the applicable registration fee shall be doubled and shall be paid by the applicant before the registration renewal for that pesticide shall be issued.
(i) Provided the state is certified by the administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency to register pesticides for special local need pursuant to Section 24(c) of FIFRA, the Commissioner shall require the information set forth under subsections (b) through (e) of this Code section and, subject to the terms and conditions of that certification, shall register such pesticide if he determines that:
  (1) Its composition is such as to warrant the proposed claims for it;
  (2) Its labeling and other material required to be submitted comply with the requirements of this article;
  (3) It will perform its intended function without unreasonable adverse effects on the environment;
  (4) When used in accordance with widespread and commonly recognized practice, it will not generally cause unreasonable adverse effects on the environment;
  (5) The classification for general use or restricted use is in conformity with Section 3(d) of FIFRA; and
  (6) A special local need exists.
(j) The Commissioner shall not make any lack of essentiality a criterion for denying registration of any pesticide. Where two pesticides meet the requirements of this Code section, one should not be registered in preference to the other.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-3, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 290, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
