# § 2-7-57. Licensing of restricted use pesticide dealers required; application; fees; responsibility of dealer

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to act in the capacity of a restricted use pesticide dealer, as defined by this article, or to advertise as or assume to act as a restricted use pesticide dealer at any time, without first having obtained an annual license from the Commissioner, which license shall expire on December 31 of each year. A license shall be required for each location or outlet located within this state from which restricted use pesticides or pesticides with state restricted uses are distributed, provided that any manufacturer, registrant, or distributor who has no pesticide dealer outlet within this state and who distributes such pesticides directly into this state shall obtain a restricted use pesticide dealer license for his principal out-of-state location or outlet.
(b) Application for a license shall be accompanied by a $55.00 annual license fee, shall be on a form prescribed by the Commissioner, and shall include the full name of the person applying for such license. If the applicant is a partnership, association, corporation, or organized group of persons, the full name of each member of the firm or partnership or the names of the principal officers of the association or corporation shall be given on the application. Such application shall further state the address of the outlet to be licensed, the principal business address of the applicant, and any other necessary information prescribed by the Commissioner. Any fees collected pursuant to this Code section shall be retained pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-12-92.1.
(c) This Code section shall not apply to a licensed pesticide contractor who sells pesticides only as an integral part of his pesticide application service, when such pesticides are dispensed only through equipment used for such pesticide application, or to a federal, state, county, or municipal agency which provides pesticides only for its own programs.
(d) If an application for renewal of a restricted use pesticide dealer license is not filed on or prior to January 1 of any one year, an additional fee of $15.00 shall be assessed and added to the original fee and shall be paid by the applicant before the renewal license shall be issued.
(e) Each restricted use pesticide dealer shall be responsible for the acts of each person employed by him in the solicitation and sale of pesticides and all claims and recommendations for use of pesticides. The dealer's license shall be subject to denial, suspension, or revocation, after a hearing, for any violation of this article or regulations issued hereunder, whether committed by the dealer or by the dealer's officer, agent, or employee.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-4, eff. 5/12/2010.
