# § 43-50-31. Application for license; qualifications; recordation of license

(a) Any person desiring a license to practice veterinary medicine in this state shall make application to the board. The application shall include evidence, satisfactory to the board, that:
  (1) The applicant has attained the age of 18;
  (2) The applicant is of good moral character;
  (3) The applicant is a graduate of an accredited college or a school of veterinary medicine accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education or possesses an ECFVG or PAVE certificate or substantial equivalent;
  (4) The applicant has passed a board approved examination; provided, however, that the board may provide by rule or regulation for a waiver of any part of such examination for veterinarians who are licensed as such by another state and who are in good standing therewith; and
  (5) The applicant meets such other qualifications or provides such other information as the board may require by rule.
(b) The application shall be accompanied by a fee in the amount established by the board.
(c) The division director shall record the new licenses and issue to the new licensees.
(d) If an applicant is found not qualified for licensure, the board shall notify the applicant in writing of such finding and the grounds therefor. Such applicant may request a hearing before the board on the questions of his or her qualifications.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 456,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 654,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 45, eff. 5/20/2010.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 257, § 1-1, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 257, § 3-1, eff. 7/1/2005
