# § 43-50-40. [See note.] Renewal of licenses; reinstatement; waiver of fee; continuing education; inactive status

(a) All licenses under this article shall be renewable biennially.
(b) Any person who shall practice veterinary medicine or veterinary technology after the expiration of his or her license and willfully or by neglect fail to renew such license shall be practicing in violation of this article, provided that any person may renew an expired license within the period established by the division director in accordance with Code Section 43-1-4 by making application for renewal and paying the applicable fees. After the time period has elapsed, such license may be reinstated in accordance with the rules of the board.
(c) The board may, by rule, waive the continuing education requirements and the payment of the renewal fee of a licensed veterinarian or licensed veterinary technician during the period when he or she is on active duty with any branch of the armed forces of the United States.
(d)
  (1) The board shall establish continuing professional veterinary medical education requirements for the renewal of veterinary licenses. Notwithstanding any other provision of this article, no license to practice veterinary medicine or veterinary technology shall be renewed by the board or the division director until the licensee submits to the board satisfactory proof of his or her participation, during the biennium preceding his or her application for renewal, in approved programs of continuing education, as defined in this Code section. The amount of continuing veterinary medical education required of licensees per biennium by the board under this paragraph shall not be less than 30 hours for veterinarians and not be less than ten hours for veterinary technicians and shall be established by board rule.
  (2) Continuing professional veterinary medical education shall consist of educational programs providing training pertinent to the practice of veterinary medicine and veterinary technology and approved by the board under this Code section. The board may approve educational programs for persons practicing veterinary medicine or veterinary technology in this state on a reasonable nondiscriminatory fee basis and may contract with institutions of higher learning, professional organizations, or qualified persons for the provision of approved programs. In addition to such programs, the board may allow the continuing education requirement to be fulfilled by the completion of approved distance learning courses, with the number of hours being established by board rule.
  (3) The board may, consistent with the requirements of this Code section, promulgate rules and regulations to implement and administer this Code section, including the establishment of a committee to prescribe standards and approve and contract for educational programs.
(e) The board shall provide by regulation for an inactive status license for those persons who elect to apply for such status. Persons who are granted inactive status shall not engage in the practice of veterinary medicine or veterinary technology and shall be exempt from the requirements of continuing veterinary medical education during such inactivity.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 456,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 417,§ 46, eff. 5/20/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 775,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2008.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 257, § 1-1, eff. 7/1/2003.
