# § 43-50-42.1. Temporary license for holder of veterinary or veterinary technician license issued by another state

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Shelter medicine" means veterinary practices used to manage the health of populations of animals handled by municipal animal shelters and private animal welfare or adoption agencies.
  (2) "Sterilization services" means procedures that meet or exceed veterinary medical standards of care in providing sterilization of dogs, cats, and pet rabbits.
(b)
  (1) No later than December 31, 2024, the board shall adopt rules and regulations implementing a process by which the holder of an active veterinary license or veterinary technician license from another state, in good standing in such state, may qualify for a one-time, six-month temporary license, license by endorsement, or a combination thereof, for practice in government or nonprofit shelter medicine, nonprofit sterilization clinics, or nonprofit mobile sterilization programs registered with this state. Such process shall include the issuance of a license to an applicant based upon such applicant:
    (A) Holding a license from another state for which the training, experience, and testing substantially meet or exceed the requirements of this state to obtain a license; and
    (B) Obtaining a specialty, certification, training, or other experience while employed in another state which substantially meets or exceeds the requirement to obtain a license in this state.
  (2) The board shall conduct periodic reviews of its rules and regulations adopted pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(c) The holder of an active veterinary license or veterinary technician license from another state who is employed by a nonprofit or for-profit entity not registered in this state, and who provides mobile sterilization services in Georgia under such entity, is ineligible for a temporary license provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 469,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
