# § 43-50-20. [See note] Creation of board; members; qualifications; vacancies; expenses; meetings; officers

(a) There shall be a State Board of Veterinary Medicine, the members of which shall be appointed by the Governor with the approval of the Secretary of State and confirmation by the Senate. The board shall consist of seven members, each appointed for a term of no more than five years or until his or her successor is appointed. Five members of the board shall be duly licensed veterinarians actually engaged in active practice for at least five years prior to appointment. The sixth member shall be appointed from the public at large and shall in no way be connected with the practice of veterinary medicine. The seventh member shall be a registered veterinary technician who has been registered and actively engaged in the practice of veterinary technology for at least five years prior to appointment. The initial appointment of the registered veterinary technician shall expire on June 30 in the fifth calendar year after this subsection becomes effective; thereafter, successors shall be appointed for a term of five years. Those members of the State Board of Veterinary Medicine serving on July 1, 2003, shall continue to serve as members of the board until the expiration of the term for which they were appointed. Thereafter, successors to such board members shall be appointed in accordance with this Code section. A majority of the board shall constitute a quorum.
(b) Vacancies due to death, resignation, removal, or otherwise shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as regular appointments. No person shall serve two consecutive five-year terms, but a person appointed for a term of less than five years may succeed himself or herself.
(c) Each member of the board shall be reimbursed as provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 43-1-2.
(d) Any member of the board may be removed by the Governor after a hearing by the board determines cause for removal.
(e) The board shall meet at least once each year at the time fixed by the board. Other necessary meetings may be called by the president of the board by giving such notice as shall be established by the board. Meetings shall be open and public except that the board may meet in closed session as set forth in Code Section 50-14-3.
(f) At its annual meeting, the board shall organize by electing a president and such other officers as may be required by the board. Officers of the board serve for terms of one year and until a successor is elected, without limitation on the number of terms an officer may serve. The president shall chair the board meetings.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 514,§ 1, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 456,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 257, § 1-1, eff. 7/1/2003.
