# § 43-50-54. Supervision required; prohibited activities of technician

(a) Any licensed veterinary technician must at all times be under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian whenever practicing veterinary technology in this state. The level of supervision shall be consistent with the delegated animal health care task. Subject to the provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 43-50-51, a licensed veterinarian may in his or her discretion delegate any animal health care task to a licensed veterinary technician; provided, however, that the board may establish by rules or regulations, in such general or specific terms as it deems necessary and appropriate for purposes of this part, the level of supervision, whether direct supervision, immediate supervision, or indirect supervision, that is required by the licensed veterinarian for any delegated animal health care task to be performed by a licensed veterinary technician. Such rules or regulations may require lower levels of supervision for licensed veterinary technicians as compared to veterinary assistants performing the same or similar animal health care tasks.
(b) Specifically and without limitation, the board may take disciplinary action against a licensed veterinary technician if the technician:
  (1) Solicits animal patients from a licensed veterinarian;
  (2) Solicits or receives any form of compensation from any person for veterinary services rendered other than from the licensed veterinarian or corporation under whom the licensed veterinary technician is employed;
  (3) Willfully or negligently divulges a professional confidence or discusses a licensed veterinarian's diagnosis or treatment without the express permission of the licensed veterinarian; or
  (4) Demonstrates a manifest incapability or incompetence to perform as a licensed veterinary technician.
(c) A licensed veterinary technician shall not be utilized in any manner which would be in violation of this article.
(d) A licensed veterinary technician shall not be utilized to perform the duties of a pharmacist licensed under Chapter 4 of Title 26.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 456,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 443,§ 3, eff. 3/30/2006.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 257, § 1-1, eff. 7/1/2003.
