# § 43-50-52. Application for license as veterinary technician; qualifications; examination; renewal; applicants registered in other states; board's responsibility

(a)
  (1) Any person desiring to work as a licensed veterinary technician in this state shall apply to the board for a license as a veterinary technician. All such applications shall be made on forms provided by the board and shall be accompanied by such fee as may be required by the board.
  (2) The application shall include evidence, satisfactory to the board, that:
    (A) The applicant has attained the age of 18;
    (B) The applicant is of good moral character;
    (C)
      (i) The applicant is a graduate of a college or technical school course of study in veterinary technology from an institution accredited by the American Veterinary Medical Association Council on Education, including without limitation instruction in the operation of life sustaining oxygen equipment, and has successfully passed an examination required by the board; or
      (ii) The applicant has successfully completed a college course of study in the care and treatment of animals from an institution having a curriculum approved by the board, including without limitation instruction in the operation of life sustaining oxygen equipment, and has successfully passed an examination required by the board; and
    (D) The applicant meets such other qualifications or provides such other information as the board may require by rule or regulation.
(b) Until July 1, 2009, any person who during the period from July 1, 1993, through June 30, 2008, acquired a minimum of five years' experience assisting a licensed veterinarian may, with a signed affidavit from his or her supervising veterinarian attesting to his or her level of on-the-job training, be allowed to take the examination approved by the board. Upon receiving a passing grade on such examination, the board may issue a certificate of registration. The board shall provide a list of appropriate study materials to candidates.
(c) Until January 1, 2005, any person who at any time prior to July 1, 2003, was certified as a licensed veterinary technician in this state shall be entitled to renew such registration without examination and without meeting any requirements of subparagraph (a)(2)(C) of this Code section.
(d) The board may issue a license to an applicant if the applicant is currently registered in another state having standards for admission substantially the same as this state and such standards were in effect at the time the applicant was first admitted to practice in the other state.
(e) The board shall be responsible for licensing any person who wishes to practice as a licensed veterinary technician in this state and in accordance with this part shall govern such practice by board rule or regulation as the board deems appropriate and necessary for the protection of the public health, safety, and general welfare.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 456,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 443,§ 3, eff. 3/30/2006.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 257, § 1-1, eff. 7/1/2003.
