# § 43-50-21. General powers of board; liberal construction of powers

(a) The board shall have the power to:
  (1) Examine and determine the qualifications and fitness of applicants for licenses to practice veterinary medicine and veterinary technology in this state;
  (2) Issue, renew, refuse to renew, deny, suspend, or revoke licenses to practice veterinary medicine or veterinary technology in this state or otherwise discipline licensed veterinarians and licensed veterinary technicians; and to issue, renew, deny, suspend, or revoke veterinary faculty licenses, consistent with this chapter and the rules and regulations adopted under this chapter;
  (3) Conduct investigations for the purpose of discovering violations of this chapter or grounds for disciplining persons licensed under this chapter;
  (4) Inspect veterinary premises and equipment, including mobile veterinary clinics, at any time in accordance with protocols established by rule of the board;
  (5) Hold hearings on all matters properly brought before the board; and, in connection therewith, to administer oaths, receive evidence, make the necessary determinations, and enter orders consistent with the findings. The board may designate one or more of its members to serve as its hearing officer;
  (6) Appoint from its own membership one member to act as a representative of the board at any meeting within or outside the state where such representative is deemed desirable;
  (7) Bring proceedings in the courts for the enforcement of this chapter or any regulations made pursuant to this chapter;
  (8) Adopt, amend, or repeal all rules necessary for its government and all regulations necessary to carry this chapter into effect, including without limitation the establishment and print or electronic publication of standards of professional conduct for the practice of veterinary medicine and veterinary technology; and
  (9) Establish and publish annually a schedule of fees for licensing.
(b) The powers enumerated in subsection (a) of this Code section are granted for the purpose of enabling the board to supervise effectively the practice of veterinary medicine and veterinary technology and are to be construed liberally to accomplish these objectives.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 456,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 11, eff. 6/3/2010.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 257, § 1-1, eff. 7/1/2003.
