# § 51-14-7. Sworn information form providing required information; failure to state a claim; class actions barred

(a) All asbestos claims and silica claims filed in this state on or after May 1, 2007, shall include with the complaint a sworn information form containing the following information:
  (1) The exposed person's name, address, date of birth, social security number, and marital status;
  (2) If the exposed person alleges exposure to asbestos or silica through the testimony of another person or other than by direct or bystander exposure to a product or products, the name, address, date of birth, social security number, and marital status for each person by which claimant alleges exposure, hereafter the "index person," and the claimant's relationship to each such person;
  (3) The specific location of each alleged exposure;
  (4) The specific asbestos-containing product or silica-containing product to which the exposed person was exposed and the manufacturer of each product;
  (5) The beginning and ending dates of each alleged exposure as to each asbestos-containing product or silica-containing product for each location at which exposure allegedly took place for plaintiff and for each index person;
  (6) The occupation and name of employer of the exposed person at the time of each alleged exposure;
  (7) The specific condition related to asbestos or silica claimed to exist;
  (8) Any supporting documentation of the condition claimed to exist; and
  (9) The identity of any bankruptcy trust to which a claim has been submitted concerning any asbestos or silica injury of the exposed person, attaching any claim form or other information submitted to such trust or trusts with respect to the exposed person. Plaintiff must also identify any bankruptcy trust that the plaintiff believes is or may be liable for all or part of the injury at issue, even if a claim has not been submitted to that trust at the time the complaint is filed.
(b) If a plaintiff filing an asbestos claim or silica claim fails to file with the complaint a sworn information form or files a sworn information form that is allegedly defective or incomplete, and one or more defendants allege, with specificity, by motion to dismiss filed on or before the close of discovery, that said sworn information form is missing, defective, or incomplete, the plaintiff's complaint shall be dismissed without prejudice for failure to state a claim, except that the plaintiff may file the sworn information form or cure the alleged defect or omission any time between service of the motion to dismiss and 30 days after any order of dismissal identifying the defective or missing item or items. The trial court may, in the exercise of its discretion, extend the time for filing the missing information as it shall determine justice requires.
(c) All asbestos claims and silica claims along with sworn information forms must be individually filed in separate civil actions except that claims relating to the exposure to asbestos or silica for the same exposed person whose alleged injury is the basis for the civil action may be joined in a single action. Otherwise, no claims on behalf of a group or class of persons shall be joined in single civil action.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 9,§ 1, eff. 5/1/2007.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 29,§ 1, eff. 4/12/2005.
