# § 12-16-20. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Board of Natural Resources.
(2) "Commissioner" means the commissioner of natural resources.
(3) "Covered action" means the issuance by the department or the division of any state-wide or regional permit or any standard or other policy contemplated by any state environmental law or environmental regulation.
(4) "Department" means the Department of Natural Resources.
(5) "Division" means the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
(6) "Environmental regulation" means a rule or regulation promulgated by the board to enforce or implement a state environmental law.
(7) "State environmental law" means any of the following Acts of the General Assembly, as now or hereafter amended:
  (A) Part 3 of Article 2 of Chapter 4 of this title, the "Georgia Surface Mining Act of 1968";
  (B) Article 2 of Chapter 5 of this title, the "Georgia Water Quality Control Act";
  (C) Part 2 of Article 3 of Chapter 5 of this title, the "Ground-water Use Act of 1972";
  (D) Code Section 12-5-31, relating to permits for withdrawal, diversion, or impoundment of surface waters and monitoring, recording, and reporting water withdrawn by certain irrigation systems;
  (E) Part 3 of Article 3 of Chapter 5 of this title, the "Water Well Standards Act of 1985";
  (F) Part 5 of Article 3 of Chapter 5 of this title, the "Georgia Safe Drinking Water Act of 1977";
  (G) Part 3 of Article 5 of Chapter 5 of this title, the "Georgia Safe Dams Act of 1978";
  (H) Chapter 7 of this title, the "Erosion and Sedimentation Act of 1975";
  (I) Part 1 of Article 2 of Chapter 8 of this title, the "Georgia Comprehensive Solid Waste Management Act";
  (J) Part 2 of Article 3 of Chapter 8 of this title, the "Georgia Hazardous Site Response Act";
  (K) Article 9 of Chapter 8 of this title, the "Georgia Brownfield Act";
  (L) Article 1 of Chapter 9 of this title, "The Georgia Air Quality Act";
  (M) Article 2 of Chapter 9 of this title, the "Georgia Motor Vehicle Emission Inspection and Maintenance Act";
  (N) Chapter 12 of this title, the "Georgia Asbestos Safety Act";
  (O) Chapter 13 of this title, the "Georgia Underground Storage Tank Act";
  (P) Chapter 14 of this title, relating to oil or hazardous material spills or releases;
  (Q) Chapter 13 of Title 31, the "Georgia Radiation Control Act"; and
  (R) Any Act of the General Assembly empowering and directing the board to comply with federal statutes relating to clean water, clean air, or the environment.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 12, eff. 5/9/2017.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 463, § 3, eff. 7/1/2004.
