# § 12-16-3. Definitions

(1) "A proposed governmental action which may significantly adversely affect the quality of the environment" means a project proposed to be undertaken by a government agency or agencies, for which it is probable to expect a significant adverse impact on the natural environment, including the state's air, land, water, plants, animals, historical sites or buildings, or cultural resources. Such actions shall not include:
  (A) emergency measures undertaken in response to an immediate threat to public health or safety; or
  (B) activities in which government agency participation is ministerial in nature, involving no exercise of discretion on the part of the government agency.
(2) "Director" means the director of the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
(3) "Division" means the Environmental Protection Division of the Department of Natural Resources.
(4) "Environmental effects report" means a report on a proposed governmental action which may significantly adversely affect the quality of the environment.
(5) "Government agency" means any department, board, bureau, commission, authority, or other agency of the state.
(6) "Land-disturbing activity" means scraping, plowing, clearing, dredging, grading, excavating, transporting, or filling of land or placement of any structure or impervious surface, dam, obstruction, or deposit or placement of or alteration to any structure on or eligible for the Georgia Register of Historic Places; provided, however, that agricultural practices involving the establishment, cultivation, or harvesting of products of the field or orchard; the preparation and planting of pasture land; farm ponds; dairy operations; livestock and poultry management practices; and forestry land management practices, including harvesting of less than five acres of trees over two inches in diameter at breast height, are excluded from the definition of land-disturbing activity.
(7) "Proposed governmental action" means any proposed land-disturbing activity by a government agency or funded by a grant from a government agency, any proposed sale or exchange of more than five acres of state owned land, or any proposed harvesting of five acres or more of trees over two inches in diameter at breast height, but the term proposed governmental action does not include, among other things, the following:
  (A) Any action or undertaking of a nongovernmental entity, even if that action or undertaking requires a permit, license, or other approval by a government agency;
  (B) Any action or undertaking of a municipality, a county, or an authority of a municipality or county, unless more than 50 percent of the total cost is funded by a grant of a government agency or a grant of more than $250,000.00 is made by a government agency;
  (C) The permitting or licensing by a government agency of an action or undertaking;
  (D) The promulgation and implementation of rules and regulations by a government agency;
  (E) The sale of bonds by a government agency or any program of loans funded by the sale of bonds by a government agency; or
  (F) Litigation decisions made by a government agency.
(8) "Responsible official" means the official or body in charge of or authorized to act on behalf of a government agency.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 463, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
