# § 43-19-4. State Board of Registration for Professional Geologists; members

(a) A State Board of Registration for Professional Geologists is created, whose duty it shall be to administer this chapter. The board shall be comprised of:
  (1) Five members who shall be geologists registered under this chapter, one of whom shall be an academic geologist, one a governmental geologist, one a salaried company geologist, one an independent or consultant geologist, and one a geologist at large;
  (2) A sixth member who shall be appointed from the public at large and who shall have no connection whatsoever with the practice of professional geology; and
  (3) The commissioner of natural resources, or his designated agent, as a permanent ex officio member.
(b) The members of the board mentioned in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be appointed by the Governor, approved by the Secretary of State, and confirmed by the Senate.
(c) Each member of the board shall be a citizen of the United States and a resident of the State of Georgia.
(d) The members of the board provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be appointed by the Governor for terms of five years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. The members of the board holding office on June 30, 1987, shall serve until the expiration of the term for which they were appointed and until their successors have been appointed and qualified. On the expiration of the term of any member, the member's successor shall be appointed in like manner by the Governor for a term of five years.
(e) No person shall serve as a member of the board for more than one consecutive five-year term.
(f) The Governor may remove any member of the board pursuant to the authority of Code Section 43-1-17. Vacancies in the membership of the board shall be filled for the unexpired term by appointment by the Governor as provided for in this chapter.
(g) The members of the board shall, before entering upon the discharge of their duty, subscribe to and file with the Secretary of State the constitutional oath of officers, whereupon the Secretary of State shall issue to each appointee a certificate of appointment.
(h) Each member of the board shall be reimbursed as provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 43-1-2.
