# § 43-19-3. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the State Board of Registration for Professional Geologists.
(2) "Geologist" means a person engaged in the practice of geology.
(3) "Geology" means that science which treats of the earth in general; investigation of the earth's crust and the rocks and other materials which compose it; and the applied science of utilizing knowledge of the earth and its constituent rocks, minerals, liquids, gases, and other materials for the benefit of mankind.
(4) "Public practice of geology" means the performance of geological service or work such as consultation, investigation, surveys, evaluation, planning, mapping, and inspection of geological work in which the performance is related to public welfare or safeguarding of life, health, property, and the environment, except as specifically exempted by this chapter. A person shall be construed to practice publicly or offer to practice publicly geology, within the meaning and intent of this chapter, who practices any branch of the profession of geology; or who by verbal claim, sign, advertisement, letterhead, card, or in any other way represents himself to be a geologist; or through the use of some other title implies that he is a geologist; or that he is registered under this chapter; or who holds himself out as able to perform or who does perform any geological services or work recognized as geology.
(5) "Qualified geologist" means a person who is not registered under this chapter but who possesses all the qualifications specified in this chapter for registration.
(6) "Registered certified specialty geologist" means a person who is certified as a specialty geologist under this chapter.
(7) "Registered geologist" means a person who is registered as a geologist under this chapter.
(8) "Responsible charge of work" means the independent control and direction, by the use of initiative, skill, and independent judgment, of geological work or the supervision of such work.
(9) "Subordinate" means any person who assists a registered geologist or a registered engineer in the practice of geology without assuming the responsible charge of work.
