# § 35-6-2. Membership of commission; terms of members; procedure

(a) The State Victim Services Commission shall consist of 14 members as follows:
  (1) The executive director of the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of Georgia or his or her designee;
  (2) The president of the Georgia Sheriffs' Association or his or her designee;
  (3) The executive director of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council or his or her designee;
  (4) The chairperson of the Georgia Commission on Family Violence or his or her designee;
  (5) The executive director of the Georgia Coalition Against Domestic Violence or his or her designee;
  (6) The executive director of the Association County Commissioners of Georgia or his or her designee;
  (7) The executive director of the Children's Advocacy Centers of Georgia or his or her designee;
  (8) The executive director of the Georgia Superior Court Clerks' Cooperative Authority or his or her designee;
  (9) The executive director of the Georgia Municipal Association or his or her designee;
  (10) The executive director of the Georgia Network to End Sexual Assault or his or her designee;
  (11) A district attorney appointed by the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of Georgia;
  (12) One member appointed by the Governor;
  (13) One member appointed by the Lieutenant Governor; and
  (14) One member appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
(b) The letter of appointment shall set out the term for which each member is appointed. Thereafter, each member shall be appointed for a term of two years, and no member may serve more than two consecutive terms. All vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term by an appointee of the original appointing official.
(c) The commission shall elect a chairperson, vice chairperson, and a secretary from among its members for terms of two years, and any member shall be eligible for successive election to such office by the commission.
(d) The commission shall hold regular meetings at such times and such places as it may deem necessary or convenient to enable the commission to exercise fully and effectively its powers, perform its duties, and accomplish the objectives and purposes of this chapter. Special meetings may be called by the chairperson or a majority of the members of the commission.
(e) A quorum for transacting business shall be determined by the members of the commission.
(f) The members of the commission shall serve without compensation or expense reimbursement.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 296,§ 18-2, eff. 7/1/2019.
