# § 31-45A-3. Development of model aquatic safety plan

(a) No later than January 1, 2024, the department shall develop a model aquatic safety plan based on national standards for private swim instructors to be available for download from its website. The department shall review the model aquatic safety plan at least every five years and make any necessary revisions based on changes to national standards for private swim instructors. The department may partner with an external organization recognized as an authority in aquatic safety to assist in the development, review, and any necessary revision of the model aquatic safety plan and other tasks as may be appropriate to the development of the model, including the provision of the necessary data, information, and resources to ensure successful development of the model as required by this Code section.
(b) The model aquatic safety plan shall include minimum procedures, requirements, and standards for the following:
  (1) The recommended ratio of students to private swim instructors in a group lesson setting;
  (2) Recommendations on secondary supervision during swimming lessons;
  (3) Participation by or presence of a parent or caregiver during swimming lessons; and
  (4) Certification in cardiopulmonary resuscitation by a private swim instructor or his or her assistant.
(c) Private swim instructors may utilize such equipment as necessary to promote aquatic safety during any instruction, with consideration to the number, age, and skill and experience level of participating students. Such equipment shall include, but is not limited to, the use of a pool deep end divider and floating safety rope line dividers.
(d) The department may include additional provisions in the model aquatic safety plan at its discretion for safety, training, and emergency response that are endorsed by nationally recognized authorities on aquatic safety, including, but not limited to, the American Red Cross, the YMCA, the YWCA, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Drowning Prevention Alliance, and the United States Swim School Association.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 271,§ 1, eff. 5/3/2023.
