# § 40-6-248.1. Securing and covering loads on vehicles

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "litter" has the meaning provided by paragraph (1) of Code Section 16-7-42.
(a.1) No vehicle shall be driven or moved on any public road unless such vehicle is constructed or loaded or covered so as to prevent any of its load from dropping, escaping, or shifting in such a manner as to:
  (1) Create a safety hazard; or
  (2) Deposit litter on public or private property while such vehicle is on a public road. However, this Code section shall not prohibit the necessary spreading of any substance in public road maintenance or construction operations.
(b) No person shall operate or load for operation, on any public road, any vehicle with any load unless such load and any covering thereon is securely fastened so as to prevent such covering or load from:
  (1) Becoming loose, detached, or in any manner becoming a hazard to other users of the public road; or
  (2) Depositing litter on public or private property while such vehicle is on a public road.
(c) No motor carrier shall allow a commercial motor vehicle to be driven and no person shall operate a commercial motor vehicle with a load that is not secure. Loads shall be secured as required by state and federal law, rule, and regulation. As used in this subsection, the term "load" shall include loads consisting of liquids and gases as well as solid materials.
(d) Nothing in this Code section nor any regulations based thereon shall conflict with federal, Department of Public Safety, or Board of Public Safety regulations applying to the securing of loads on motor vehicles.
(e) The provisions of paragraph (2) of subsection (a) and paragraph (2) of subsection (b) of this Code section and regulations based thereon shall not apply to organic debris that escapes during the transportation of silage from field or farm to storage and storage to feedlot or during the transportation of agricultural or farm products or silvicultural products from farm or forest to a processing plant or point of sale or use.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 268,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 40, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 632,§ II-10, eff. 7/1/2012.
Renumbered from § 32-6-21 and amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 538,§ 3-9, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 953, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
