# § 40-6-323. Parking

(a) An electric personal assistive mobility device or a personal delivery device may be parked on a sidewalk unless otherwise prohibited or restricted by an official traffic control device or local ordinance; provided, however, that in no case shall an electric personal assistive mobility device be parked on any sidewalk in such a manner as to prevent the movement of a wheelchair.
(b) An electric personal assistive mobility device or a personal delivery device shall not be parked on any roadway in such a manner as to prevent the movement of a legally parked motor vehicle.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, a personal delivery device operator or any person operating an electric personal assistive mobility device shall be subject to the same parking restrictions as provided for motor vehicles under Part 1 of Article 10 of this chapter. All violations of parking restrictions shall be the responsibility of a personal delivery device owner or the owner of an electric personal assistive mobility device; and, for purposes of parking restrictions, the owner of an electric personal assistive mobility device and a personal delivery device owner shall be deemed to be in control of the device at the time of a parking violation involving such device, and no evidence of actual control by such owner need be proven as an element of the offense.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 814,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 56, § 4, eff. 5/29/2003.
