# § 40-6-329.1. Local ordinances or resolutions; limitations; authority; requirements

(a) Except as otherwise provided for in this article and subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section, local authorities shall not enact or enforce an ordinance or resolution relating to:
  (1) Design, manufacture, or maintenance of a personal delivery device;
  (2) Licensing, registration, or certification of a personal delivery device;
  (3) Any additional taxation upon a personal delivery device other than any property tax charges, business license fees, or occupation tax surcharges otherwise authorized by law;
  (4) Insuring a personal delivery device beyond the requirements set forth in Code Section 40-6-327;
  (5) Types of cargo that may be transported by a personal delivery device;
  (6) Operations of personal delivery devices; or
  (7) Use of or restricted access to any sidewalk, crosswalk, or public highway.
(b) For the purpose of assuring the safety of individuals using highways, sidewalks, bicycle lanes, bicycle paths, and shared use paths a local authority shall be authorized to enact ordinances prohibiting hours of operation of personal delivery devices upon sidewalks, bicycle lanes, bicycle paths, and shared use paths under their jurisdiction, provided that restrictions do not prohibit the operation of personal delivery devices between sunrise and sunset. A local authority shall be further authorized to enact ordinances prohibiting the operation of personal delivery devices upon the property of schools, hospitals, and sidewalks immediately adjacent to stadiums, coliseums, or buildings owned, operated or leased by the federal government, the State of Georgia or its agencies or authorities, or any political subdivision of the state, provided that such property or sidewalk is owned or maintained by the local authority.
(c) Any local authority shall be authorized to enact an ordinance or resolution which designates a geographically limited area within the jurisdiction of such authority and which regulates the operation of personal delivery devices upon highways, sidewalks, bicycle lanes, bicycle paths, and shared use paths within such geographically limited area, provided that such regulations are no more restrictive than those imposed by this part and the geographically limited area is no greater than seven linear miles.
(d) A local authority shall provide for public hearing prior to passage of any ordinance pursuant to subsection (b) or (c) of this Code section.
(e) For purposes of this Code section, a highway shall be considered under the jurisdiction of a local authority when it is part of the county or municipal road system of such local authority designated pursuant to Chapter 4 of Title 32.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 814,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
