# § 40-6-325. Required equipment; minimum age for operation; exception to age requirement

(a)
  (1) Any electric personal assistive mobility device, when operated on any highway or sidewalk, shall be equipped with:
    (A) Front, rear, and side reflectors which shall be visible from a distance of 300 feet when directly in front of lawful upper beams of headlights on a motor vehicle;
    (B) A system that when employed will enable the operator to bring the device to a controlled stop; and
    (C) A lamp emitting a white light which, while the device is in motion, illuminates the area in front of the operator for a distance of 300 feet, if the device is operated between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise.
  (2) Any personal delivery device, when operated on any highway or sidewalk, shall be equipped with:
    (A) A braking system that enables the device to come to a controlled stop;
    (B) Lights upon the front and rear of the device that are visible under normal atmospheric conditions from at least 500 feet on all sides of the device, if the device is operated between one-half hour after sunset and one-half hour before sunrise; and
    (C) A prominently displayed unique identification number and a contact phone number for the personal delivery device owner which shall be answered by an individual located within this state at any time when the device is in operation; provided, however, that nothing in this subparagraph shall subject a personal delivery device to motor vehicle registration requirements of Chapter 2 of this title or any local ordinance or regulation requiring registration of such devices.
(b) No person under the age of 16 years shall operate an electric assistive personal mobility device on any highway; provided, however, that a person under the age of 16 years may operate an electric assistive personal mobility device on any sidewalk if such person is wearing protective headgear which meets or exceeds the impact standards for bicycle helmets required by Code Section 40-6-296.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 814,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 56, § 4, eff. 5/29/2003.
