# § 40-6-228. Enforcement

(a) Any county or municipal law enforcement agency of the state which is empowered to enforce the provisions of this part may, in its discretion, appoint any person who is a citizen of the United States, is of good moral character, and has not previously been convicted of a felony to enforce the provisions of Code Section 40-6-226 within the county or municipality in which the appointing law enforcement agency exercises jurisdiction. Each person appointed pursuant to this Code section shall take and subscribe an oath of office as prescribed by the appointing authority. Any person appointed and sworn pursuant to this subsection shall be authorized to enforce the provisions of this part in the same manner as any law enforcement officer of the state or any county or municipality of the state subject to the limitations provided in subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section.
(b) No person appointed pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall be deemed a peace officer under the laws of this state or:
  (1) Be deemed an employee of or receive any compensation from the state, county, municipality, or appointing law enforcement agency, but the appointing law enforcement agency shall provide any person so appointed with a uniform consisting of a pith helmet and a windbreaker jacket which shall remain the property of the appointing law enforcement agency;
  (2) Be required to complete any training or be certified pursuant to the requirements of Chapter 8 of Title 35;
  (3) Have the power or duty to enforce any other traffic or criminal laws of the state, county, or municipality;
  (4) Have the power to possess and carry firearms and other weapons for the purpose of enforcing the parking laws for persons with disabilities; provided, however, that a person who is a lawful weapons carrier as defined in Code Section 16-11-125.1 shall not be in violation of this paragraph; or
  (5) Be entitled to any indemnification from the state, county, or municipality for any injury or property damage sustained by such person as a result of attempting to enforce the parking laws of the state for persons with disabilities.
(c) Neither the state nor any county, municipality, or other political subdivision of the state or any department, agency, board, or officer of the state or any county, municipality, or political subdivision of the state shall be liable or accountable for or on account of any act or omission of any person appointed pursuant to this Code section in connection with such person's enforcement of the provisions of Code Section 40-6-226. No person appointed pursuant to this Code section shall be liable on account of any act or omission in connection with such person's enforcement of the provisions of Code Section 40-6-226.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any person willfully to obstruct, resist, impede, or interfere with any person appointed pursuant to this Code section in connection with such person's enforcement of Code Section 40-6-226 or to retaliate or discriminate in any manner against such person as a reprisal for any act or omission of such person. Any violation of this subsection shall be punishable as a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 596,§ 17, eff. 4/12/2022.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 643,§ 2-16, eff. 6/4/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 482,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
