# § 40-6-308. Operation of farm tractors and implements of husbandry upon certain highways; yielding of right of way

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Farm tractor" means every motor vehicle designed and used primarily as a farm implement, for drawing plows, mowing machines, and other implements of husbandry.
  (2) "Implement of husbandry" means every device, whether it is self-propelled or not, designed and adapted so as to be used primarily for agricultural, horticultural, or livestock-raising operations or for lifting or carrying an implement of husbandry and, in either case, not subject to registration if operated upon the highways.
  (3) "Operator" means any individual lawfully operating a farm tractor or implement of husbandry.
(b) Farm tractors, except trailers and semitrailers operated in accordance with statutory limits or provisions of Code Sections 32-6-24 and 40-8-50, shall not be permitted to travel upon any highway in this state which is a part of The Dwight D. Eisenhower System of Interstate and Defense Highways, provided that the Department of Public Safety shall have the authority to permit such travel in certain geographic areas of the state as deemed necessary. Farm tractors or implements of husbandry may be operated on any highway in this state if the operator complies with Code Section 40-8-4 and has taken reasonable steps to reduce the width of the farm tractor or implement of husbandry as provided for by the manufacturer. Whenever the width of a farm tractor or implement of husbandry exceeds the width of that portion of a roadway on which the farm tractor or implement of husbandry is driven, which is marked as a single lane of traffic, or, if the roadway has not been marked for lanes of traffic and the width of the farm tractor or implement of husbandry exceeds more than 50 percent of the width of the roadway, the operator shall move the farm tractor or implement of husbandry, as soon as possible, as far to the right-hand side of the roadway as is practicable and safe upon approach of any oncoming or following vehicle and upon approaching the crest of a hill.
(c) Upon the immediate approach of a farm tractor or implement of husbandry which cannot be moved by the operator thereof to the far right-hand side of the roadway in compliance with subsection (b) of this Code section, due to the existence of any bridge or guardrail, sign, or any other physical impediment which would not safely allow such tractor or implement of husbandry to travel on the far right-hand side of the road, the driver of every other vehicle shall yield the right-of-way and shall immediately pull over to the far right-hand side of the road and remain in such position until the farm tractor or implement of husbandry has passed.
(d) This Code section shall not operate to relieve any operator of a farm tractor or implement of husbandry from the duty to drive with due regard for the safety of all persons using the roadway.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 500,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 14,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2021.
