# § 40-6-165. Operation of school buses

(a) Prior to moving a school bus from a stop at which passengers have been loaded or unloaded, the driver of the bus shall check all mirrors to ensure that it is safe to place the bus in motion.
(b) Prior to loading or unloading passengers from a school bus, the driver shall engage the parking brakes of the bus and shall not release such brakes until each passenger boarding the bus is on board and until each passenger disembarking from the bus is off the roadway and safely on the pedestrian areas of the roadway.
(c) Prior to loading or unloading passengers from a school bus, the driver shall display the stop arm on the bus and shall not retract the stop arm until each passenger boarding the bus is on board and until each passenger disembarking from the bus is off the roadway and safely on the pedestrian areas of the roadway.
(d) The driver of a school bus shall not use or operate a wireless telecommunications device, as such term is defined in Code Section 40-6-241, or two-way radio while loading or unloading passengers.
(e) The driver of a school bus shall not use or operate a wireless telecommunications device, as such term is defined in Code Section 40-6-241, while the bus is in motion, unless it is being used in a similar manner as a two-way radio to allow live communication between the driver and school officials or public safety officials.
(f) The driver of a school bus shall instruct all passengers exiting the bus of the proper procedures of crossing the roadway in front of the bus only.
(g) The driver of a school bus shall ensure that the red flasher lights on the bus remain illuminated and flashing until all passengers have boarded or have exited the bus and have safely crossed the roadway and are safely on the pedestrian areas of the roadway.
(h) The driver of a school bus shall extend the extension arm or gate on the front of the bus until all passengers have boarded or have exited the bus and have safely crossed the roadway and are safely on the pedestrian areas of the roadway.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 298,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 443,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 560, § 7, eff. 7/1/2004.
