# § 40-6-51. Restrictions on type of vehicle that may travel on certain major interstates and highways inside the Interstate 285 perimeter

(a)
  (1) Any motor vehicle with more than six wheels and commercial motor vehicles as defined by Code Section 40-1-1 shall not travel on any portions of Interstates 20, 75, 85 or Georgia Highway 400 that are located within the arc of Interstate 285 unless the driver of such motor vehicle is:
    (A) Engaging in a pick up or delivery to or from a shipper located inside the arc of Interstate 285;
    (B) Traveling to or from such motor vehicle's terminal facility located inside the arc of Interstate 285;
    (C) Traveling to or from a repair facility located inside the arc of Interstate 285 for service; or
    (D) Traveling to or from his or her residence which is located inside the arc of Interstate 285.
  (2) The Department of Transportation by order and local authorities by ordinance may regulate or prohibit the use of any controlled-access roadway within their respective jurisdictions by any class of vehicle or kind of traffic which is found to be incompatible with the normal and safe movement of traffic.
(b) The Department of Transportation or the local authority adopting any such prohibition shall erect and maintain official traffic-control devices on the controlled-access highway on which such prohibitions are applicable, and when such devices are in place no person shall disobey the restrictions stated thereon.
(c) For purposes of this Code section, roadways within the jurisdiction of the Department of Transportation and roadways within the jurisdiction of local authorities shall be as set forth in Code Section 32-4-1.
(d) A driver of a motor vehicle failing to comply with the requirements of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be fined $150.00. A driver of a motor vehicle failing to comply with subsection (a) of this Code section during a declared state of emergency for inclement weather conditions shall be fined $1,000.00.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 638,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 629,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2014.
