# § 40-6-329. [Renumbered] Penalty for violations; judicial jurisdiction

(a) Any person who violates any provision of this part relating to an electric personal assistive mobility device other than Code Section 40-6-326 shall not be guilty of a criminal offense or a moving traffic violation for purposes of Code Section 40-5-57 but shall be subject to a civil monetary penalty not to exceed $500.00.
(b) Any violation of this part by a personal delivery device shall not be a criminal offense or a moving traffic violation for purposes of Code Section 40-5-57 but shall be subject to a civil monetary penalty not to exceed $500.00. Any citation for a violation of this part or any other laws or ordinances relating to the operation of a personal delivery device shall be issued to the personal delivery device owner by use of the information displayed on the unique identification marker on the device.
(c) Any court having jurisdiction over violations relating to the operation of a motor vehicle shall have jurisdiction over cases arising under this part and shall be authorized to impose the civil monetary penalty provided by this Code section. Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, the provisions of law governing jurisdiction, procedure, defenses, adjudication, appeal, and payment and distribution of penalties otherwise applicable to violations relating to the operation of a motor vehicle shall apply to enforcement under this Code section; provided, however, that any appeal from a superior or state court shall be by application in the same manner as that provided by Code Section 5-6-35.

## History

Renumbered from and amended § 40-6-327 by 2022 Ga. Laws 814,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 56, § 4, eff. 5/29/2003.
