# § 40-6-181. Maximum limits

(a) The limits specified in this Code section or established as authorized in this article shall be the maximum lawful vehicle speeds, except when a special hazard exists that requires a lower speed for compliance with Code Section 40-6-180.
(b) Consistent with the provision of engineering and traffic investigations regarding maximum speed limits as provided in Code Section 40-6-182, no person shall drive a vehicle at a speed in excess of the following maximum limits:
  (1) Thirty miles per hour in any urban or residential district unless otherwise designated by appropriate signs;
  (2) Thirty-five miles per hour on a highway that is an unpaved county road unless designated otherwise by appropriate signs;
  (3) Seventy miles per hour on a highway that is part of the federal interstate system and highways that are physically divided with full control of access and that are part of the state highway system, provided that such speed limit is designated by appropriate signs;
  (4) Sixty-five miles per hour on highways that are physically divided without full control of access and that are part of the state highway system, provided that such speed limit is designated by appropriate signs; and
  (5) Fifty-five miles per hour in other locations.
(c) The maximum speed limits set forth in this Code section may be altered as authorized in Code Sections 40-6-182, 40-6-183, and 40-6-188.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 588,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 241,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 665,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2014.
