# § 51-15-2. Definitions

(1)
  (A) "Asbestos claim" means any claim, wherever or whenever made, for damages, losses, indemnification, contribution, loss of consortium, or other relief arising out of, based on, or in any way related to the health effects of exposure to asbestos, including, but not limited to:
    (i) Any claim, to the extent recognized by applicable state law now or in the future, for:
      (I) Personal injury or death;
      (II) Mental or emotional injury;
      (III) Risk or fear of disease or other injury;
      (IV) The costs of medical monitoring or surveillance; or
      (V) Damage or loss caused by the installation, presence, or removal of asbestos; and
    (ii) Any claim made by or on behalf of an exposed person or based on that exposed person's exposure to asbestos, including a representative, spouse, parent, child, or other relative of the exposed person.
  (B) "Asbestos claim" shall not mean a claim brought under:
    (i) A workers' compensation law administered by this state to provide benefits, funded by a responsible employer or its insurance carrier, for occupational diseases or injuries or for disability or death caused by occupational diseases or injuries;
    (ii) The Act of April 22, 1908, known as the Federal Employers' Liability Act, 45 U.S.C. Section 51, et seq.;
    (iii) The Longshore and Harbor Workers' Compensation Act, 33 U.S.C. Sections 901-944, 948-950; or
    (iv) The Federal Employees Compensation Act, 5 U.S.C. Chapter 81.
(2) "Corporation" means a corporation for profit, including a domestic corporation organized under the laws of this state or a foreign corporation organized under laws other than the laws of this state.
(3) "Successor" means a corporation that assumes or incurs, or has assumed or incurred, successor asbestos related liabilities.
(4) "Successor asbestos related liabilities" means any liabilities, whether known or unknown, asserted or unasserted, absolute or contingent, accrued or unaccrued, liquidated or unliquidated, or due or to become due, which are related in any way to asbestos claims and were assumed or incurred by a corporation as a result of or in connection with a merger or consolidation, or the plan of merger or consolidation related to the merger or consolidation, with or into another corporation, or which are related in any way to asbestos claims based on the exercise of control or the ownership of stock of the corporation before the merger or consolidation. The term includes liabilities that, after the time of the merger or consolidation for which the fair market value of total gross assets is determined under Code Section 51-15-4, were or are paid or otherwise discharged, or committed to be paid or otherwise discharged, by or on behalf of the corporation, or by a successor of the corporation, or by or on behalf of a transferor, in connection with settlements, judgments, or other discharges in this state or another jurisdiction.
(5) "Transferor" means a corporation from which successor asbestos related liabilities are or were assumed or incurred.

## History

Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 9,§ 2, eff. 5/1/2007.
