# § 51-15-1. Legislative findings; limitations on liabilities

The General Assembly finds that the number of asbestos related claims has increased significantly in recent years and threatens the continued viability of a number of uniquely situated companies that have not ever manufactured, sold, or distributed asbestos or asbestos products and are argued to be liable only as successor corporations. This liability has created an overpowering public necessity to provide an immediate, clarifying, and remedial legislative solution. The General Assembly intends that the cumulative recovery by all asbestos claimants from innocent successors be limited, and intends to simply clarify and fix the form of asbestos claimants' remedies without impairing their substantive rights and finds that there are no alternative means to meet this public necessity. The General Assembly finds that Pennsylvania, Ohio, Texas, Mississippi, Florida, and South Carolina have enacted legislation similar to this chapter that, among other things, provides limitations of liabilities for asbestos claims for innocent successors. The General Assembly finds the public interest as a whole is best served by providing relief to these innocent successors so that they may remain viable and continue to contribute to this state. The General Assembly further finds that Georgia's successor liability statutes were never intended or contemplated to impose liability on successors in the situation covered by this chapter.

## History

Added by 2007 Ga. Laws 9,§ 2, eff. 5/1/2007.
