# § 2-10-60. Suspension or revocation of registration, license, or permit; procedure; enforcement of laws, regulations, or orders

(1) When the Commissioner, either through investigation or otherwise, has determined that any person has engaged in, is engaging in, or is about to engage in any act, practice, or transaction which is prohibited by any provision of this article or rule promulgated in support of this article governing activities for which registration with or a license or permit from the department is required, whether or not such person has so registered or obtained such a license or permit, the Commissioner may issue an administrative order, if he or she deems it to be in the public interest or necessary for the protection of the citizens of this state, prohibiting such person from continuing such act, practice, or transaction or suspending or revoking any such registration, license, or permit held by such person. The administrative order shall be final and effective ten days after issuance. The administrative order and notice of right to a hearing shall be served in person by the Commissioner or his or her agent or by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested. The person or persons to whom the administrative order is issued may within ten days of issuance petition the department for a hearing. A petition for hearing shall be deemed filed on the date the department receives such petition, or when mailed by first class mail, proper postage attached, properly addressed directly to the department, whichever date first occurs. The petitioner shall simultaneously serve a copy of such petition by certified mail, overnight mail, or personal service upon the Attorney General. If the person timely petitions the department for a hearing, the administrative order shall be stayed pending any administrative hearing until a final decision is rendered by the Commissioner. The administrative hearing shall be the forum in which the licensee may demonstrate that at the time of any alleged violation the licensee was in full compliance with the law;
(2) If the Commissioner has reasonable cause to believe that an act, practice, or transaction is occurring or is about to occur, and that such act, practice, or transaction would constitute an imminent peril to the public safety or welfare requiring emergency action, the Commissioner may issue an emergency order to be effective immediately. The emergency order shall contain findings to such effect and reasons for the determination, along with notice of right to a hearing. The person or persons to whom the emergency order is issued may within five days of issuance petition the department for a hearing on the administrative order. If such person timely petitions the department for a hearing, the administrative order shall be stayed pending any administrative hearing until a final decision is rendered by the Commissioner;
(3) Upon a timely request for hearing, the Commissioner shall schedule a hearing and appoint or designate a hearing officer to conduct the hearing for the taking of evidence and the issuance of a decision;
(4) Except where in conflict with the express provisions of this Code section and the reasonable implication of such provisions, the provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," relating to contested cases shall be applicable to the actions of the Commissioner taken pursuant to this Code section and to the conduct and judicial review of any hearings held as a result thereof;
(5) The Commissioner may institute actions or other legal proceedings in any superior court of proper venue as may be required for the enforcement of any law or regulation governing activities for which registration with or a license or permit from the department is required;
(6) The Commissioner may prosecute an action in any superior court of proper venue to enforce any order made by him or her pursuant to this Code section; and
(7) In cases in which the Commissioner institutes an action or other legal proceeding or prosecutes an action to enforce his or her order, the superior court may, among other appropriate relief, issue a temporary restraining order or a preliminary, interlocutory, or permanent injunction restraining or enjoining persons and those in active concert with them from engaging in any acts, practices, or transactions prohibited by orders of the Commissioner or any law or regulation governing activities for which registration with or a license or permit from the department is required. In any such action, it shall not be necessary for the Commissioner to allege or prove the absence of an adequate remedy at law.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 791, § 3, eff. 7/1/2004.
