# § 4-4-43. Rendering plant requirements

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to operate a rendering plant unless the rendering plant:
  (1) Is constructed according to blueprints approved by the Georgia Department of Agriculture; provided, however, that neither blueprints for nor alterations to facilities existing on July 1, 1989, shall be required except to the extent that alterations are necessary for compliance with the other provisions of this part, and to the extent that alterations are necessary for such compliance they shall be made not later than July 1, 1990;
  (2) Has walls, floors, and ceilings of concrete or other impervious materials;
  (3) Has ample hot water (140 degrees Fahrenheit) to facilitate cleaning of the building, equipment, and vehicles used to move products;
  (4) Has adequate drainage constructed and maintained so that no liquid or other matter is permitted to escape therefrom unless into a sewage facility approved by the governmental authority having proper jurisdiction. The document showing approval of such sewage facility must be maintained at the plant for inspection review; and
  (5) Is cleaned and sanitized daily to prevent odor and the accumulation of refuse.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, partnership, or corporation to operate a rendering plant unless all vehicles used in the transportation of carcasses or refuse on public highways are of such construction as to prevent seepage or residue from escaping.
(c) Carcasses or refuse shall not be allowed to accumulate or be held for any period of time at any place other than a licensed slaughtering, processing, or rendering plant or any combination thereof. Such licensed facilities shall have a procedure approved by the department if they accumulate or hold carcasses or refuse for longer than one day's operation.
(d) Rodent and vermin control shall be diligently practiced with buildings and surrounding grounds kept clean and free of refuse, trash, and manure.
(e) All barrels used for transportation and storage of carcasses or refuse shall be clearly marked "INEDIBLE" with letters not less than two inches in height.
