# § 4-4-172. Deer-farming license; records; facilities

(a) No person shall possess, buy, import, or transport farmed deer or engage in or carry on the business of deer farming without first applying for and obtaining a deer-farming license from the Commissioner of Agriculture. A deer-farming license shall be valid from the date of issuance to March 31 of the following calendar year. A deer-farming license will not be issued by the Commissioner to any deer-farming operation which has not been inspected and approved by the Department of Natural Resources, provided that any facility expansion must be reapproved prior to renewal of a deer-farming license.
(b) The license of any deer farm operator violating this article or any rule or regulation adopted by the Commissioner pursuant to this article shall be subject to revocation, cancellation, or suspension following notice and hearing. A deer-farming license of any licensee whose facility does not meet the definition of an agricultural operation shall be revoked, and such license may be revoked if the licensee violates any provision of Title 27, relating to wild animals. Any farmed deer must be disposed of within 45 days of revocation of any deer-farming license.
(c) Deer farm operators shall maintain inventory records of their deer herds, including natural additions, purchased additions, sales, and deaths. Records shall be kept in accordance with specifications of the Commissioner and shall be subject to review by the Commissioner or a representative or employee of the department.
(d) Deer farm operators shall construct and maintain premises and facilities used in deer farming in accordance with rules established by the Commissioner and in accordance with subparagraph (A) of paragraph (1) of Code Section 27-5-6, provided that:
  (1) The facility must be constructed of such material and of such strength as appropriate for the animals involved;
  (2) Housing facilities shall be structurally sound and shall be maintained in good repair to protect and contain the animals;
  (3) The facilities shall be designed in such manner, including the inclusion of barriers of sufficient dimensions and conformation, to safeguard both the animals and the public against injury or the transmission of diseases by direct contact; and
  (4) Any portion of such facility within which farmed deer are maintained shall be surrounded by a fence with a minimum height of eight feet with the bottom six feet made of woven mesh and constructed of a design, strength, gauge, and mesh approved by the department, after consultation with the Department of Natural Resources, and which is sufficient to prevent escape of farmed deer and to prevent white-tailed deer from entering. Supplemental wire to attain a height of eight feet may be smooth, barbed, or woven wire of a gauge and mesh approved by the department with strands no more than six inches apart. All trees and other structures which pose a threat to the integrity of the fencing shall be removed unless fencing is constructed so as to prevent the breach of the fence from the fall of a tree or structure.
(e) It shall be the duty of the Department of Agriculture to inspect an applicant's facilities and to transmit a copy of any application for a deer-farming license to the Department of Natural Resources. The Department of Natural Resources shall inspect the applicant's facilities and shall report to the Department of Agriculture within 30 days of receipt of the application. It also shall be the duty of the Department of Agriculture to transmit a copy of any license issued pursuant to this article to the Department of Natural Resources. It also shall be the duty of the Department of Agriculture to notify the Department of Natural Resources of the revocation, nonrenewal, cancellation, or lapse of any license issued pursuant to this article. All such notifications shall be made in writing and shall be made as promptly as possible, but in no event shall such notification be given more than 72 hours after the event giving rise to the requirement of notice.
(f) For purposes other than agricultural operations, farmed deer species must be held under a wild animal license pursuant to Chapter 5 of Title 27. Anyone holding, possessing, importing, or transporting farmed deer without a deer-farming license or a wild animal license is in violation of Title 27.
