# § 4-4-22. Feeding garbage to swine

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Garbage" means any refuse matter or by-product which contains animal tissue or which has been mixed with any animal tissue, whether liquid or otherwise.
  (2) "Person" means any individual, firm, partnership, corporation, or association or any agency, department, or other political subdivision of the state or any other entity.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to feed garbage to swine or to place garbage in such a position or location as to permit its consumption by swine, except as otherwise provided in this Code section. Persons who negligently or intentionally provide garbage or sources of garbage to other persons found to be feeding garbage to swine in violation of this part shall be deemed culpable and responsible for the violative acts of feeding as if they were the actual feeders of the garbage.
(c) This Code section shall not apply to any person who:
  (1) Raises swine solely for slaughter and consumption on the farm or property on which the swine are raised;
  (2) Does not purchase and import or permit the importation onto such farm or property on which swine are raised any swine, portion of the carcass of any swine, pork food product, or garbage containing any animal tissue, whether liquid or otherwise; and
  (3) Does not sell, trade, exchange, export, or otherwise dispose of any swine, portion of the carcass of any swine, pork food product, or any garbage or refuse containing any portion thereof outside of such farm or property on which the swine are raised.
(d) Any person who violates any provision of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Each day in which such violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense.
