# § 4-4-82. License requirement; records requirement; transportation equipment; disposal of dead poultry

(a) No poultry market operator shall engage in or carry on such business without first applying for and obtaining a license from the Commissioner. No poultry dealer or broker shall engage in or carry on such business without first applying for and obtaining a license from the Commissioner. There shall be a fee of $35.00 per annum for such license. Any fees collected pursuant to this Code section shall be retained pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-12-92.1.
(b) The license of any licensed dealer, broker, or poultry market operator violating this part or any rule or regulation adopted by the Commissioner pursuant to this part shall be subject to revocation, cancellation, or suspension following a notice and hearing.
(c) No dealer, broker, or poultry market operator shall buy, store, or otherwise receive any poultry without first recording the name and address of the person or persons from whom the poultry is received, the number and type of such poultry, and the motor vehicle license tag number of the vehicle used by the person or persons to transport the poultry. The dealer, broker, or poultry market operator shall also keep records of the name and address of the person or persons buying such poultry. These records shall be maintained for two years. All records shall be subject to review by the Commissioner or a representative or employee of the department.
(d) Any dealer, broker, or poultry market operator who transports live poultry shall keep all cages, coops, trucks, and trailers clean and sanitary. All equipment used to transport live poultry shall be cleaned and disinfected after each use.
(e) Each dealer, broker, and poultry market operator shall properly dispose of dead poultry in accordance with Code Section 4-5-5.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-15, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 513,§ 1, eff. 4/19/2006.
