# § 33-60-5. Required notice and acknowledgement

(a) In each sale of an alternative health benefit plan, the insurer shall provide to each proposed individual group member or individual policyholder a notice and an acknowledgment at the beginning of the application for the alternative health benefit plan containing the following language in boldface type: "You have the option to choose this Small Business Employee Choice of Benefits Health Insurance Plan which does not provide all of the state mandated health benefits normally required in accident and sickness insurance policies in Georgia. This health benefits plan may provide a more affordable health insurance policy for you, although, at the same time, it may provide you with fewer health benefits than those normally included as state mandated health benefits in policies in Georgia. If you choose this option, please consult with your insurance agent to discover which state mandated health benefits are excluded in this policy."
(b) An acknowledgment separate from the notice and application provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be provided to and completed by each individual policyholder or individual group member. Such acknowledgment shall contain a comparison of the benefits contained in each of the health benefit plan options being offered to the individual policyholder or individual group member. In the case of group health benefit plans being offered by an employer, a copy of the acknowledgment for each individual group member shall be maintained by the employer.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 186,§ 1-29, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 385,§ 1, eff. 5/10/2005.
