# § 33-60-4. Requirements for insurers and employers; sale by health maintenance organizations permitted; purchase of additional coverage permitted

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of law:
  (1) Any insurer authorized to transact business in this state offering group accident and sickness policies or contracts shall be required to offer, through a licensed agent or agency, a group health benefit plan that contains all state mandated health benefits and may offer a group alternative health benefit plan as defined in this chapter; and
  (2) Any insurer authorized to transact business in this state offering individual accident and sickness policies or contracts shall be required to offer, through a licensed agent or agency, an individual health benefit plan that contains all state mandated health benefits and may offer an individual alternative health benefit plan as defined in this chapter.
(b) An employer who chooses to offer group health benefit plans to its employees shall offer to each eligible employee a group health benefit plan that contains all state mandated health benefits and may offer to each eligible employee a group alternative health benefit plan as defined in this chapter.
(c) The provisions of Chapter 21 of this title shall not be deemed to prohibit licensees thereunder from selling the policies provided for in this Code section.
(d) The purchase of an accident and sickness policy or contract under this Code section shall not preclude the purchaser from purchasing additional limited benefit insurance policies or contracts.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 186,§ 1-28, eff. 7/1/2019.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 385,§ 1, eff. 5/10/2005.
