# § 33-60-3. Definitions

(1) "Alternative health benefit plan" means a group or individual health benefit plan that contains:
  (A) Major medical benefits;
  (B) Standard provisions or rights required to be present in an individual, blanket, or group policy or contract for accident and sickness insurance pursuant to state law or regulations unrelated to specific health illnesses, injuries, or conditions of the insured, including, but not limited to, those related to continuation of coverage in Code Section 33-24-21.1, Code Section 33-24-21.2, paragraph (4) of Code Section 33-30-4, and paragraph (8) of subsection (b) of Code Section 33-30-6; entitlement to conversion privileges in Code Section 33-24-21.1; termination of coverage in Code Sections 33-24-21 and 33-24-28; and coverage of newly born or adopted children in Code Section 33-24-22; and
  (C) Coverage of testing for chlamydia in Code Section 31-17-4.1; coverage for complications of pregnancy in Code Section 33-24-24; coverage for general anesthesia and related hospital and outpatient facility charges for dental care for persons who are developmentally disabled, seven or younger, neurologically impaired, or suffering severe face or head trauma in Code Section 33-24-28.4; surveillance tests for ovarian cancer in Code Section 33-24-56.2; colorectal cancer screening and testing in Code Section 33-24-56.3; coverage for hospital stays after delivery in Code Section 33-24-58.2; direct access to obstetricians and gynecologists in Code Section 33-24-59; treatment of dependent children with cancer in Code Section 33-24-59.1; coverage for equipment and self-management training for individuals with diabetes in Code Section 33-24-59.2; coverage for prescribed female contraceptive drugs or devices in Code Section 33-24-59.6, provided that nothing contained in this paragraph shall be construed to require any insurance company to provide coverage for abortion; coverage for prescription inhalers in Code Section 33-24-59.8; coverage for autism in Code Section 33-24-59.10; coverage for mastectomy and lymph node dissection in Code Section 33-24-72; coverage for mammograms, Pap smears, and screening for prostate cancer in Code Sections 33-29-3.2 and 33-30-4.2; provisions concerning mail-order pharmaceuticals in Code Section 33-30-4.3; and coverage for child wellness exams in Code Sections 33-29-3.4 and 33-30-4.5.
(2) "Group" means any employer group of 50 employees or less.
(3) "Insurer" means any insurer or nonprofit organization authorized to sell accident and sickness policies, subscriber contracts, certificates, or agreements of any form under Chapters 15, 20, 21, 29, and 30 of this title.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 186,§ 1-27, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 33, eff. 4/24/2013.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 385,§ 1, eff. 5/10/2005.
