# § 25-10-5. License and fee for manufacture, storage, and transportation of fireworks or pyrotechnic displays or using special effects; regulations; inspections

(a) The annual license fee for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership conducting business in this state under paragraph (4) of Code Section 25-10-3 or storing fireworks under Code Section 25-10-3.1 or conducting fireworks or pyrotechnics exhibitions or displays before a proximate audience under subsection (a) of Code Section 25-10-3.2 shall be $1,500.00 per year, payable to the Safety Fire Commissioner. The license shall expire on December 31 of each year. The Safety Fire Commissioner is authorized and directed to promulgate safety regulations relating to the manufacture, storage, and transportation of fireworks within this state in order to ensure the adequate protection of the employees of any such person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership and of the general public. The Safety Fire Commissioner is further authorized and directed to promulgate safety regulations relating to fireworks or pyrotechnics exhibitions or displays before a proximate audience and the licensing requirements of those conducting such fireworks or pyrotechnics exhibitions or displays before a proximate audience, as he or she deems necessary. The Safety Fire Commissioner is further authorized and directed to conduct periodic inspections of the facilities of any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership manufacturing, storing, and transporting fireworks as provided in paragraph (4) of Code Section 25-10-3 or as provided in Code Section 25-10-3.1 in order to ensure compliance with fire safety rules and regulations.
(b) The annual license fee for any person, firm, corporation, association, or partnership conducting public exhibitions or displays of fireworks or using special effects under Code Section 25-10-3.2 shall be $500.00 per year, payable to the Safety Fire Commissioner. The license shall expire on December 31 of each year. The Safety Fire Commissioner is authorized and directed to promulgate safety regulations relating to public exhibitions or displays of fireworks and the licensing requirements of those conducting such public exhibitions or displays of fireworks, as he or she deems necessary. The Safety Fire Commissioner is further authorized and directed to promulgate safety regulations relating to the use of special effects and the licensing requirements of those using such special effects, as he or she deems necessary.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 614,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-51, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 49,§ 4, eff. 5/28/2003.
