# § 43-24A-5. Qualifications of board members; removal; training

(a)
  (1) There shall be four professional members of the board who shall:
    (A) Be citizens of the United States and residents of this state for at least three years prior to the date of appointment;
    (B) Have been engaged in massage therapy practice for compensation for at least five years immediately preceding their appointment; and
    (C) Be licensed under this chapter.
  (2) No more than one professional member of the board may be an owner of or affiliated with any massage therapy school.
(b) There shall be one consumer member of the board who shall be appointed by the Governor from the public at large, shall be a citizen of the United States and resident of this state, and shall be a person to whom neither this state nor any other state or jurisdiction or organization has ever issued a certificate, registration, license, or permit to engage in the practice of massage therapy nor be an owner of or affiliated with any massage therapy school or massage therapy business.
(c) The Governor, after notice and opportunity for hearing, may remove any member of the board for incompetence, neglect of duty, unprofessional conduct, conviction of a felony, failure to meet the qualifications of this chapter, or committing any act prohibited by this chapter.
(d) Each board member shall annually complete at least one-half hour of training in human trafficking awareness and prevention and shall provide documentation of such training to the chairperson of the board.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 489,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 213,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2019.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 391,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
