# § 43-24A-4. Georgia Board of Massage Therapy; creation; members; terms; reimbursement

(a) There is created the Georgia Board of Massage Therapy which shall consist of five members. The board shall be assigned to the Office of the Secretary of State for administrative purposes and shall be under the jurisdiction of the division director and shall operate in accordance with and pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 1 of this title, as applicable.
(b) The Governor shall appoint, subject to confirmation by the Senate, all members of the board for initial terms of office beginning July 1, 2005. The Governor shall appoint two initial members of the board to serve for terms of two years and three initial members of the board, including the public member, to serve for terms of four years. After the initial terms specified in this subsection, members of the board shall take office on the first day of July immediately following the expired term of that office and shall serve for a term of four years and until their successors are appointed and qualified. Any person appointed to the board when the Senate is not in session may serve on the board without Senate confirmation until the Senate acts on that appointment. No member shall serve on the board for more than two full consecutive terms. Any vacancy due to death, resignation, removal, or otherwise shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired term in the same manner as regular appointments.
(c) All members of the board shall be reimbursed as provided for in subsection (f) of Code Section 43-1-2.
(d) An appointee to the board shall qualify by taking an oath of office within 15 days from the date of his or her appointment. On presentation of the oath, the Secretary of State shall issue a commission to each appointee as evidence of his or her authority to act as a member of the board.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 213,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2019.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 391,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
