# § 43-24A-14. Display of the license certificate; expiration and renewal of licenses; liability insurance coverage; change of address; inactive status

(a) The licensee shall display the license certificate or a photocopy thereof in an appropriate and public manner at each location at which he or she practices, with a two-inch by two-inch photograph of the licensee taken within the last two years affixed thereto.
(b) All licenses shall expire biennially unless renewed. All applications for renewal of a license shall be filed with the division director prior to the expiration date, accompanied by the biennial renewal fee prescribed by the board and certifying that all current requirements of continuing education as determined by the board have been fulfilled. The board shall provide for penalty fees for late registration. The failure to renew a license by the end of an established penalty period shall have the same effect as a revocation of said license, subject to reinstatement only after application and payment of the prescribed reinstatement fee within the time period established by the division director, provided that the applicant meets such requirements as the board may establish by rule.
(c) A licensee shall provide evidence of current liability insurance coverage as required in Code Section 43-24A-8 upon request by the board at any time during such licensee's term of licensure.
(d) The licensee shall inform the board of any change of address within 30 days.
(e) Each person licensed under this chapter is responsible for renewing his or her license before the expiration date.
(f) Under procedures and conditions established by the board, a licensee may request that his or her license be declared inactive. The licensee may apply for active status at any time and upon meeting the conditions set forth by the board shall be declared active.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 489,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 213,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2019.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 391,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
