# § 43-24A-13. License by endorsement

(a) Any applicant for a license by endorsement as a massage therapist must submit a completed application upon a form and in such manner as the board prescribes, accompanied by applicable fees, and evidence satisfactory to the board that:
  (1) The applicant is at least 18 years of age;
  (2) The applicant is of good moral character. For purposes of this paragraph, "good moral character" means professional integrity and a lack of any conviction for acts involving moral turpitude where the underlying conduct relates to the applicant's fitness to practice massage therapy;
  (3) The applicant has satisfactory results from a fingerprint record check report conducted by the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as determined by the board. Application for a license under this Code section shall constitute express consent and authorization for the board or its representative to perform a criminal background check. Each applicant who submits an application to the board for licensure by endorsement agrees to provide the board with any and all information necessary to run a criminal background check, including, but not limited to, classifiable sets of fingerprints. The applicant shall be responsible for all fees associated with the performance of such background check; and
  (4) The applicant is currently licensed as a massage therapist in another jurisdiction, state, or territory of the United States or foreign country which requires standards for licensure considered by the board to be equivalent to the requirements for licensure under this chapter.
(b) The board may establish by rule procedures for an applicant for licensure by endorsement to supplement his or her application to satisfy any standards for licensure pursuant to this chapter that are greater than those of another state, territory, or jurisdiction.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 213,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2019.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 724,§ 3, eff. 5/2/2012.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 775,§ 17, eff. 7/1/2008.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 391,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
