# § 43-24A-15. Unlawful acts

(a) It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person, entity, or board recognized massage therapy educational program to advertise:
  (1) Massage therapy services or to advertise the offering of massage therapy services unless such services are provided by a person who holds a valid license under this chapter; or
  (2) Massage therapy services through any form of media or representation through the use of pictorial representations unless the persons depicted in such representations are attired and posed in a manner so as to avoid appealing to the prurient interest.
(b) It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to advertise:
  (1) As a massage therapist unless the person holds a valid license under this chapter in the classification so advertised; or
  (2) Massage therapy services combined with escort or dating services or adult entertainment.
(c) It shall be a violation of this chapter for a person or entity, or the employees, agents, or representatives of such person or entity, to practice massage therapy or to use in connection with such person's or entity's name or business activity the terms "massage," "massage therapy," "massage therapist," "massage practitioner," or the letters "M.T.," "L.M.T.," or any other words, letters, abbreviations, or insignia indicating or implying directly or indirectly that massage therapy is provided or supplied unless such massage therapy is provided by a massage therapist licensed and practicing in accordance with this chapter.
(d) It shall be a violation of this chapter for any entity to:
  (1) Advertise the offering of massage therapy services combined with escort or dating services, adult entertainment, or illegal acts relating to sex related crimes; or
  (2) Employ unlicensed massage therapists to perform massage therapy.
(e) It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person to practice massage therapy without holding a current or provisional license as a massage therapist in accordance with subsection (a) of Code Section 43-24A-8.
(f) It shall be a violation of this chapter for any person or entity, or the employees, agents, or representatives of such person or entity, to render or offer massage therapy services for compensation unless such massage therapy is provided by a licensed massage therapist.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 213,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 444,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 391,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
