# § 43-24A-9. Provisional permits

(a) A provisional permit to practice as a provisionally permitted massage therapist shall, upon proper application, be issued for a six-month period to an applicant who meets the following criteria:
  (1) Holds and maintains a valid license as a massage therapist in another state;
  (2) Is not a resident of this state as confirmed in a secure and verifiable document, as defined in Code Section 50-36-2;
  (3) Has not had a license or permit to practice as a massage therapist voided, revoked, suspended, denied, or annulled by this state or another state, territory, or jurisdiction; and
  (4) Has not been convicted of a felony in the courts of this state, any other state, territory, or country, or in the courts of the United States, including, but not limited to, a plea of nolo contendere entered to such charge or the affording of first offender treatment to any such charge in the same manner as provided in paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of Code Section 43-1-19.
(b) A provisional permit shall require the applicant to work under the supervision of a licensed massage therapist in good standing with the board. If an applicant has met the requirements of subsection (a) of this Code section and submits the applicable license fee, the applicant shall be granted a provisional permit to practice massage therapy in this state. Upon receipt of such application and fee, a provisional permit shall be administratively issued.
(c) A provisional permit may be voided if the board determines that the person holding such permit no longer meets one or more of the criteria set forth in subsection (a) of this Code section.
(d) A provisional permit issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall have the same force and effect as a permanent license until the time of its expiration.
(e) A provisional permit issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section shall expire on the same date as a license issued under this chapter to a holder of a provisional permit who has passed the examination pursuant to Code Section 43-24A-8.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 213,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2019.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 266,§ 4A, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 724,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2012.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 391,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
