# § 43-24A-3. Definitions

(1) "Advertise" means, but is not limited to, the issuing of or causing to be distributed any card, sign, or other device or causing or permitting any sign or marking on or in any building or structure, or in any newspaper, magazine, or directory, or announcement on radio, or announcement or display on television, computer network, or electronic or telephonic medium.
(2) "Applicant" means any person seeking a license or renewal under this chapter.
(3) "Board" means the Georgia Board of Massage Therapy established by this chapter.
(4) "Board recognized massage therapy educational program" means an educational program located within or outside the State of Georgia that receives compensation for training two or more persons in massage therapy or its modalities, which has submitted an application and fee, been approved by a national massage therapy certifying organization or entity approved by the board, and meets the standards for training and curriculum as set out by the board in its rules, including, but not limited to, standards for training and curriculum that are consistent with:
  (A) The Nonpublic Postsecondary Education Commission as provided in Code Section 20-3-250.4;
  (B) A postsecondary institution of the Technical College System of Georgia that is accredited by the Commission on Colleges of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools; or
  (C) A postsecondary institution that is accredited by an accrediting agency recognized by the United States Department of Education and that is authorized or approved by a professional licensing board, department, or agency in another state, jurisdiction, or territory whose standards have been determined by the board to be equivalent to the Nonpublic Postsecondary Education Commission.
(5) "Entity" means the owner or operator of a business where massage therapy for compensation is performed.
(6) "License" means a valid and current certificate of registration issued by the board pursuant to this chapter to practice massage therapy.
(7) "Licensee" means any person holding a license.
(8) "Massage therapist" means a person licensed under this chapter as a massage therapist who administers or teaches massage or massage therapy for compensation.
(9) "Massage therapy" or "massage" means the application of a system of structured touch, pressure, movement, and holding to the soft tissue of the body in which the primary intent is to enhance or restore health and well-being. Such term includes complementary methods, including without limitation cupping therapy, taping techniques, the external application of water, superficial heat, superficial cold, lubricants, salt scrubs, or other topical preparations and the use of commercially available electromechanical devices which do not require the use of transcutaneous electrodes and which mimic or enhance the actions possible by the hands; the term also includes determining whether massage therapy is appropriate or contraindicated, or whether referral to another health care provider is appropriate. Such term shall not include the use of ultrasound, fluidotherapy, laser, and other methods of deep thermal modalities.
(10) "Massage therapy business" means an entity where the practice of or engagement in massage therapy is performed by a licensed massage therapist.
(11) "Person" means a natural person only.
(12) "Provisionally permitted massage therapist" means a person issued a provisional permit under this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 808,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 213,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 444,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 391,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
