# § 15-9-15. [Effective Until 7/1/2025] Council of Probate Court Judges of Georgia

(a) There is created a council to be known as "The Council of Probate Court Judges of Georgia." The council shall be composed of the judges of the probate courts of this state. The council is authorized to organize itself and to develop a constitution and bylaws. The officers of said council shall consist of a president, president-elect, vice president, secretary-treasurer, and such other officers and committees as the council shall deem necessary.
(b) It shall be the purpose of The Council of Probate Court Judges of Georgia to effectuate the constitutional and statutory responsibilities conferred on it by law and to further the improvement of the probate courts and the administration of justice.
(c) Expenses of the administration of the council shall be paid from state funds appropriated for that purpose or from other funds available to the council.
(d) The council through its officers may contract with a person or firm including any member of the council for the production of educational material and compensate said member for producing such material, provided that funds are available to the council at the time of execution of the contract or will be available at the time of the completion of the contract and provided that the terms of the contract are disclosed to the full council and made available to the general public and news media. At the request of the council, the Administrative Office of the Courts shall be authorized to act as the agent of the council for the purpose of supervising and implementing the contract.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 405,§ 1-15, eff. 7/1/2018.
This section is set out more than once due to postponed, multiple, or conflicting amendments.
