# § 15-9-101. "Training council" defined; powers; bond of personnel; audits

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "training council" means the Probate Judges Training Council.
(b) The training council shall be a legal entity and an agency of the State of Georgia; shall have perpetual existence; may contract; may own property; may accept funds, grants, and gifts from any public or private source for use in defraying the expenses of the training council in carrying out its duties; may adopt and use an official seal; may establish a principal office; may employ such administrative or clerical personnel as may be necessary and appropriate to fulfill its necessary duties; and shall have such other powers, privileges, and duties as may be reasonable and necessary for the proper fulfillment of its purposes and duties.
(c) The training council shall require a sufficient bond signed by some surety or guaranty company authorized to do business in this state of any administrative or clerical personnel employed by the training council and empowered to handle funds of the training council. The premiums on such bonds shall be paid by the training council from funds appropriated or otherwise available to the training council.
(d) The training council shall establish such auditing procedures as may be required in connection with the handling of public funds. The state auditor is authorized and directed to make an annual audit of the acts and doings of the training council and to make a complete report of the same to the General Assembly. The state auditor shall not be required to distribute copies of the audit to the members of the General Assembly but shall notify the members of the availability of the audit in the manner which he or she deems to be most effective and efficient. The report shall disclose all moneys received by the training council and all expenditures made by the training council, including administrative expense. He or she shall also make an audit of the affairs of the training council at any time required by a majority of the training council or the Governor of the state.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 405,§ 1-32, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 333,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2005.
