# § 15-9-63. Schedule of minimum salaries

(a)
  (1) Any other provision of law to the contrary notwithstanding, the minimum annual salary of each judge of the probate court in this state shall be fixed according to the population of the county in which he or she serves, as determined by the United States decennial census of 2010 or any future such census; provided, however, that such annual salary shall be recalculated in any year following a census year in which the Department of Community Affairs publishes a census estimate for the county prior to July 1 in such year that is higher than the immediately preceding decennial census. Each such judge of the probate court shall receive an annual salary, payable in equal monthly installments from the funds of the county, of not less than the amount fixed in the following schedule: PopulationMinimum Salary0 - 5,999.................................................................$ 35,576.656,000 - 11,889.................................................................48,856.6311,890 - 19,999.................................................................55,344.7120,000 - 28,999.................................................................59,296.0429,000 - 38,999.................................................................63,247.3839,000 - 49,999.................................................................67,203.6050,000 - 74,999.................................................................75,327.4875,000 - 99,999.................................................................80,855.58100,000 - 149,999.................................................................86,381.94150,000 - 199,999.................................................................92,237.91200,000 - 249,999.................................................................100,722.08250,000 - 299,999.................................................................109,336.93300,000 - 399,999.................................................................120,695.99400,000 - 499,999.................................................................125,596.32500,000 or more.................................................................130,496.72
  (2)
    (A) Whenever the state employees subject to compensation plans authorized and approved in accordance with Code Section 45-20-4 receive a cost-of-living increase or general performance based increase of a certain percentage or a certain amount, the amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection and in Code Section 15-9-64, or the amounts derived by increasing each of said amounts through the application of longevity increases pursuant to Code Section 15-9-65, where applicable, shall be increased by the same percentage or same amount applicable to such state employees. If the cost-of-living increase or general performance based increase received by state employees is in different percentages or different amounts as to certain categories of employees, the amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and in Code Section 15-9-64, or the amounts derived through the application of longevity increases, shall be increased by a percentage or an amount not to exceed the average percentage or average amount of the general increase in salary granted to the state employees. The Office of Planning and Budget shall calculate the average percentage increase or average amount increase when necessary. The periodic changes in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection, and in Code Section 15-9-64, or the amounts derived through the application of longevity increases, as authorized by this paragraph, shall become effective on the first day of January following the date that the cost-of-living increases or general performance based increases received by state employees become effective; provided, however, that if the cost-of-living increases received by state employees become effective on January 1, such periodic changes in the amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in paragraph (1) of this subsection and in Code Section 15-9-64, or the amounts derived by increasing each of said amounts through the application of longevity increases pursuant to Code Section 15-9-65, where applicable, as authorized by this paragraph, shall become effective on the same date that the cost-of-living increases or general performance based increases received by state employees become effective.
    (B) The amounts fixed in the minimum salary schedule in this subsection shall not be increased by any state cost-of-living or general performance based increases that have been applied or are effective prior to January 1, 2020. Any state cost-of-living or general performance based increases effective on or after January 1, 2020, shall be calculated as provided in this Code section.
  (3) The county governing authority may supplement the minimum annual salary of the judge of the probate court in such amount as it may fix from time to time; but no probate judge's compensation supplement shall be decreased during any term of office. A county governing authority shall not be required to pay a local supplement to a judge beyond the term of office for which such supplement was approved. Any prior expenditure of county funds to supplement the probate judge's salary in the manner authorized by this paragraph is ratified and confirmed. Nothing contained in this paragraph shall prohibit the General Assembly by local law from supplementing the annual salary of the probate judge.
(b) In any county in which more than 70 percent of the population of the county according to the United States decennial census of 1990 or any future such census resides on property of the United States government which is exempt from taxation by this state, the population of the county for purposes of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be deemed to be the total population of the county minus the population of the county which resides on property of the United States government.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 543,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 15, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 310,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 563,§ 2, eff. 4/21/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-12, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 649,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 291, § 4, eff. 1/1/2002.
