# § 15-9-141. Retired judges; senior judge appointment; written request for assistance

(a)
  (1) Any judge of a probate court who retires pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 11 of Title 47 may be appointed a senior judge of the probate courts.
  (2) Any judge of a probate court, whether or not said judge is a member of the retirement fund created by Chapter 11 of Title 47, who ceases holding office as a judge and who has at least eight years of service as a judge of a probate court at the time of ceasing to hold such office and who is not eligible for appointment to the office of senior judge under any other law of this state may be appointed as a senior judge of the probate courts.
(b) Upon becoming eligible for appointment pursuant to the provisions of this Code section, a judge who ceases to hold office may become a senior judge of the probate courts and in that capacity may be called upon to serve as a judge in any probate court in which the judge is otherwise qualified to serve.
(c) Any qualified former judge of a probate court may petition the Governor for appointment as senior judge. The Governor shall appoint each qualified applicant as a senior judge of the probate courts.
(d) The judge of any probate court of this state may make a written request for assistance to a senior judge of the probate courts. The request by the judge may be made if one of the following circumstances arise:
  (1) The judge of the requesting court is disqualified for any cause from presiding in any matter pending before the court; or
  (2) The judge of the requesting court is unable to preside because of disability, illness, absence, or any reason.
(e) The compensation of a senior judge of the probate courts serving as a judge of a probate court under this Code section shall be that which is normally paid to a substitute judge of the court in which the senior judge is serving, and such compensation shall be paid from any funds available for the operation of such court. In addition to such compensation, a senior judge of the probate courts shall receive actual expenses or, at such judge's option, in the event of service outside the county of such judge's residence, the same per diem expense authorized by law for members of the General Assembly and shall receive mileage at the same rate as state employees for such services. Such expenses and mileage shall be paid from the same source of funds which pays the compensation of a senior judge of the probate courts as provided in this subsection upon a certificate by the senior judge as to the number of days served or the expenses and mileage. Such compensation and expenses shall not affect, diminish, or otherwise impair the payment or receipt of any retirement or pension benefits, when applicable, of such judge.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 15, eff. 2/12/2001.
