# § 15-9-2.1. Appointment, compensation, authority, qualifications, training, and other limitations of associate probate court judges

(a)Appointment, compensation, and term.
  (1) The judge of the probate court may appoint one or more individuals to serve as associate judges of the probate court in probate matters on a full-time or part-time basis subject to the approval of the governing authority of the county. Such associate judges of the probate court shall serve at the pleasure of the judge of the probate court.
  (2) Whenever an associate judge of the probate court is appointed to serve in a probate court, the clerk of the probate court shall forward a certified copy of the order of appointment to the Council of Probate Court Judges of Georgia.
  (3) Associate judges of the probate court shall be included in the list of members of the Council of Probate Court Judges of Georgia as set forth in Code Section 15-9-15. An associate judge of the probate court shall not be a voting member and shall not serve as an officer of the Council of Probate Court Judges of Georgia.
  (4) Compensation of the associate judges of the probate court shall be fixed by the judge of the probate court subject to the approval of the governing authority or governing authorities of the county or counties for which the associate judge of the probate court is appointed. The salary and any employment benefits of each associate judge of the probate court shall be paid from county funds. No associate judge of the probate court shall be eligible to participate in the Judges of the Probate Courts Retirement Fund of Georgia.
(b)Authority. Both full-time and part-time associate judges of the probate court shall be vested with all of the authority of the judge of the probate court of the county or counties for which the associate judge of the probate court is appointed. In all proceedings before the court, the judgment of an associate judge of the probate court shall be the final judgment of the court for appeal purposes.
(c)Qualifications and training requirements.
  (1) With the exception of the residency requirement set forth in subparagraph (a)(1)(B) of Code Section 15-9-2, all associate judges of the probate court shall have the same qualifications required of the elected judge of the probate court of the county or counties for which the associate judge of the probate court is appointed.
  (2) All full-time associate judges of the probate court shall complete the training requirements set forth for judges of the probate court in Code Section 15-9-1.1. All part-time associate judges of the probate court shall be required to attend a minimum of nine hours of training in an area related to probate court, mental health, or traffic matters as determined by the elected judge of the probate court. All probate required training shall be paid for by the governing authority or governing authorities of the county or counties for which the associate judge of the probate court is appointed.
(d)Oath and bond.
  (1) Before entering on the duties of their offices, all associate judges of the probate court shall take the oaths required of all civil officers and, in addition, the following oath: "I do swear that I will well and faithfully discharge the duties of associate judge of the probate court for the County of __________________ during my continuation in office, according to law, to the best of my knowledge and ability, without favor or affection to any party. So help me God."
  (2) The clerk of the probate court shall make an entry of the oath of each associate judge of the probate court on the minutes of the probate court. In the case of an associate judge of the probate court serving as a magistrate, no oath, certificate, or commission shall be required except the oath and commission of the associate judge of the probate court as an associate judge of the probate court.
(e)Restriction on the practice of law and the fiduciary role.
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any associate judge of the probate court to engage directly or indirectly in the practice of law in his or her own name or in the name of another as a partner in any manner in any case, proceeding, or matter of any kind in his or her own court or in any other court in any case, proceeding, or any other matters of which his or her own court has pending jurisdiction or has jurisdiction. It shall be unlawful for any associate judge of the probate court to give advice or counsel to any individual on any matter of any kind whatsoever that has arisen directly or indirectly in his or her own court. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to limit in any way the ability of an associate judge of the probate court to serve as or offer advice in his or her role as a judge advocate or in any other military role in an active duty or reserve component of the United States Army, United States Navy, United States Marine Corps, United States Coast Guard, United States Air Force, United States Space Force, United States National Guard, Georgia National Guard, Georgia Air National Guard, Georgia Naval Militia, the Georgia State Defense Force, or in the National Guard or Air National Guard of any state or territory of the United States.
  (2) Subsection (b) of Code Section 15-9-2 regarding a judge's limitations on the fiduciary role shall apply to all associate judges of the probate court.
(f)Proceedings when an associate judge of the probate court is disqualified. Whenever the judge of the probate court is unable to act in any case because of a conflict of interest, an unlawful act or the accusation of an unlawful act by such judge, or other disqualification of such judge, any associate judge of the probate court shall also be disqualified.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 389,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 405,§ 1-3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 51,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 177,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
