# § 15-9-13. Procedure when judge unable to act; compensation

(a) Whenever a judge of the probate court is unable to act in any case because of sickness, absence, or any other reason, an associate judge of the probate court, in order of seniority, shall exercise the jurisdiction of the probate court, unless he or she is disqualified under subsection (f) of Code Section 15-9-2.1. Whenever a judge of the probate court is unable to act in any case because of sickness, absence, or any other reason and an associate judge is unable to act, the judge of the probate court may appoint an attorney at law who is a member of the State Bar of Georgia to exercise the jurisdiction of the probate court. If, however, the inability of the probate judge to act arises from any unlawful act or the accusation of an unlawful act on the part of the probate judge, the probate judge shall not appoint an attorney and only another judge shall exercise the jurisdiction of the probate court.
(b) If for any reason the judge of the probate court fails to appoint an attorney to serve, the chief judge of the superior court shall appoint an individual to serve and exercise the jurisdiction of the judge of the probate court in the case.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of Code Section 15-9-2.1, the compensation of the individual serving as provided in this Code section shall be fixed by the board of county commissioners or, in those counties which have no county commissioners, by the chief judge of the superior court. The compensation shall be paid from the general funds of the county. All fees collected during such service by an individual who is not an associate judge of the probate court shall be paid into the general funds of the county.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 405,§ 1-13, eff. 7/1/2018.
