# § 15-9-102. Composition; terms of office; vacancies

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "District" means an area of this state containing one or more counties which is designated and numbered as a district by The Council of Probate Court Judges of Georgia.
  (2) "Training council" means the Probate Judges Training Council.
(b)
  (1) The training council shall consist of one member from each district as elected by the judges of the probate courts within such district. Such elections shall occur prior to the annual spring business meeting of The Council of Probate Court Judges of Georgia. Training councilmembers shall serve four-year terms; provided, however, that members from odd-numbered districts shall serve an initial term of two years and members from even-numbered districts shall serve an initial term of four years. All members may succeed themselves, and successors shall be elected in the same manner as the original members immediately prior to the expiration of each member's term of office. The president of The Council of Probate Court Judges of Georgia shall be a voting member of the training council ex officio.
  (2) The Council of Probate Judges of Georgia may add up to four additional members to the training council. Such members shall be selected from the members of The Council of Probate Judges of Georgia at large and serve for two-year terms. Such members may succeed themselves if they are reappointed by the council. If a vacancy occurs for the additional members added, the council shall determine how to fill the vacancy.
(c) In the event a vacancy occurs in the membership of the training council as a result of a death, resignation, removal, or failure of reelection as a probate judge, the members of the district in which such vacancy has occurred shall elect a qualified person from the district to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term of the member whose seat is vacant. The person elected to fill such vacancy shall take office immediately upon election.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 405,§ 1-33, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 685,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2008.
