# § 15-9-43. Preservation of newspapers

(a) The issues of the newspapers preserved as required in paragraph (9) of Code Section 15-9-37 shall be bound, microfilmed, photostated, or photographed; and such newspapers, microfilm, photographs, or photostatic copies shall be maintained within the county courthouse for a period of not less than 50 years, after which time the newspapers, microfilm, photographs, or other photostatic copies may be donated to a library or historical society, with the concurrence of the director of the Division of Archives and History, in the discretion of the judge of the probate court.
(b) The judge of the probate court is authorized to enter into an agreement with either the clerk of the superior court or the sheriff of the county, or both, relative to the binding, retention, microfilming, photographing, or photostating of the newspapers and their preservation and retention, in which event it shall be necessary that only one set of newspapers or copies thereof shall be retained in the county courthouse. The set of newspapers or copies thereof shall include copies of the newspaper issues in which the advertisements of the judge of the probate court appear as well as copies of the newspaper issues in which the advertisements which the clerk of the superior court or the sheriff, or both, are required to preserve and retain appear. The agreement shall specify the person who shall maintain and preserve the newspapers, microfilm, photographs, or photostatic copies.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 749, § 3, eff. 7/1/2002.
