# § 15-9-63.1. Compensation for services as magistrate or chief magistrate; longevity increases

(a) Beginning January 1, 2022, in any county in which the probate judge serves as chief magistrate or magistrate, he or she shall be compensated for such service based on a minimum annual amount of $14,162.10; provided, however, that compensation for a probate judge shall not be reduced during his or her term of office. A county governing authority shall not be required to pay the compensation provided by this subsection beyond the term for which such probate judge serves as a chief magistrate or magistrate.
(b) Whenever the state employees subject to compensation plans authorized and approved in accordance with Code Section 45-20-4 receive a cost-of-living increase or general performance based increase of a certain percentage or a certain amount, the amount provided in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be increased by the same percentage or same amount applicable to such state employees. If the cost-of-living increase or general performance based increase received by state employees is in different percentages or different amounts as to certain categories of employees, the amount provided in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be increased by a percentage or an amount not to exceed the average percentage or average amount of the general increase in salary granted to the state employees. The Office of Planning and Budget shall calculate the average percentage increase or average amount increase when necessary. The periodic changes in the amount provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, as authorized by this subsection, shall become effective on the first day of January following the date that the cost-of-living increases or general performance based increases received by state employees become effective; provided, however, that if such increases received by state employees become effective on January 1, such periodic changes in the amount provided in subsection (a) of this Code section, as authorized by this subsection, shall become effective on the same date that the cost-of-living increases or general performance based increases received by state employees become effective.
(c) On and after January 1, 2002, the amounts provided in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section shall be increased by multiplying said amounts by the percentage which equals 5 percent times the number of completed four-year terms of office served by any probate judge serving as a chief magistrate or magistrate where such terms have been completed after December 31, 1999, effective the first day of January following the completion of each such period of service.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 198,§ 3, eff. 5/4/2021.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 310,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 563,§ 3, eff. 4/21/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-13, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 649,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 291, § 5, eff. 1/1/2002.
