# § 33-24-59.9. Registered nurse first assistants

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "Registered Nurse First Assistant Consumer Act."
(b) It is the intent of the General Assembly to:
  (1) Encourage the continued use of registered nurse first assistants who meet the qualifications of this Code section as "assistants at surgery" by physicians and surgical facilities to provide quality, cost-effective surgical intervention to health care recipients in the state; and
  (2) Establish policies within managed health care agencies, workers' compensation carriers, and all private insurance companies to provide for adequate and justifiable reimbursement for the registered nurse first assistant for services rendered.
(c) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Health benefit policy" means any individual or group plan, policy, or contract for health care services issued, delivered, issued for delivery, or renewed in this state, including, but not limited to, those policies, plans, or contracts executed by the state on behalf of state employees under Article 1 of Chapter 18 of Title 45, by a health care corporation, health maintenance organization, preferred provider organization, accident and sickness insurer, fraternal benefit society, workers' compensation insurance carrier in accordance with Chapter 9 of Title 34, or other insurer or similar entity.
  (2) "Insurer" means an accident and sickness insurer, fraternal benefit society, workers' compensation insurance carrier, health care corporation, health maintenance organization, managed care plan other than a dental plan, or any similar entity authorized to issue contracts under this title, but shall exclude any state program funded under Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C.A. Section 1396, et seq., and any other publicly funded state health care program.
  (3) "Perioperative nursing" means a practice of registered professional nursing in which the registered nurse provides preoperative, intraoperative, and postoperative nursing care to surgical patients.
  (4) "Recognized educational curriculum program" means a program that:
    (A) Addresses all content of the Association of periOperative Registered Nurses, Inc., Core Curriculum for the Registered Nurse First Assistant and the Certification Board of Perioperative Nurses; and
    (B) Includes indicated didactic and clinical internship as required by the curriculum.
  (5) "Registered nurse first assistant" means a person who:
    (A)
      (i) Is licensed as a registered professional nurse in this state;
      (ii) Is certified in perioperative nursing; and
      (iii) Has successfully completed a registered nurse first assistant education program that meets the Association of periOperative Registered Nurses, Inc.'s education standard for the registered nurse first assistant; or
    (B) Was holding the title of and practicing as a registered nurse first assistant as of January 1, 1993.
(d) Notwithstanding any provisions in policies or contracts which might be construed to the contrary, whenever any health benefit policy which is issued, executed, or renewed in this state provides that any of its benefits are payable to a surgical first assistant for services rendered, the insurer shall be required to directly reimburse any registered nurse first assistant who has rendered such services at the request of a physician and within the scope of a registered nurse first assistant's professional license. This Code section shall not apply to a registered nurse first assistant who is employed by the requesting physician or renders such services in the capacity as an employee of the hospital where services are rendered.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 33, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 71, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 33, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 14, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
