# § 33-24-59.2. Coverage for equipment and self-management training for individuals with diabetes; enforcement

(a) Every individual major medical and group health insurance policy, group health insurance plan or policy, and any other form of managed or capitated care plans or policies shall provide coverage for medically necessary equipment, supplies, pharmacologic agents, and outpatient self-management training and education, including medical nutrition therapy, for individuals with insulin-dependent diabetes, insulin-using diabetes, gestational diabetes, and noninsulin-using diabetes who adhere to the prognosis and treatment regimen prescribed by a physician licensed to practice medicine pursuant to Title 43.
(b)
  (1) Diabetes outpatient self-management training and education as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall be provided by a certified, registered, or licensed health care professional with expertise in diabetes.
  (2) The Commissioner shall promulgate rules and regulations after consultation with the Department of Public Health which conform to the standards for diabetes outpatient self-management training and educational services established by the American Diabetes Association for purposes of this Code section.
  (3) The Commissioner shall promulgate rules and regulations, relating to standards of diabetes care, after consultation with the Department of Public Health, the American Diabetes Association, and the National Institutes of Health. Such rules and regulations shall be adopted in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 33-2-9.
(c) The benefits provided in this Code section shall be subject to the same annual deductibles or coinsurance established for all other covered benefits within a given policy.
(d) Private third-party payors may not reduce or eliminate coverage due to the requirements of this Code section.
(e) Enforcement of the provisions of this Code section shall be performed by the Commissioner of Insurance.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 63, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-42, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 782, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
