# § 33-24-90. Definitions

(1) "Adverse action" shall mean a denial or cancellation of, an increase in any charge for, or a reduction or other adverse or unfavorable change in the terms of coverage or amount of any insurance, existing or applied for, in connection with the underwriting of personal insurance.
(2) "Affiliate" shall mean any company that controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with another company.
(3) "Applicant" shall mean an individual who has applied to be covered by a personal insurance policy with an insurer.
(4) "Consumer" shall mean an insured whose credit information is used or whose insurance score is calculated in the underwriting or rating of a personal insurance policy or an applicant for such a policy.
(5) "Consumer reporting agency" shall mean any person that, for monetary fees, dues, or on a cooperative nonprofit basis, regularly engages in whole or in part in the practice of assembling or evaluating consumer credit information or other information on consumers for the purpose of furnishing consumer reports to third parties.
(6) "Credit information" shall mean any credit related information derived from a credit report or found on a credit report utilized by an insurer or used by an insurer to calculate an insurance score for personal insurance. Information that is not credit related shall not be considered credit information, regardless of whether it is contained in a credit report or in an application, or is used to calculate an insurance score.
(7) "Credit report" shall mean any written, oral, or other communication of information by a consumer reporting agency bearing on a consumer's credit worthiness, credit standing, or credit capacity which is used or expected to be used or collected in whole or in part for the purpose of serving as a factor to determine personal insurance premiums, eligibility for coverage, or tier placement.
(8) "Insurance score" shall mean a number or rating that is derived from an algorithm, computer application, model, or other process that is based in whole or in part on credit information for the purposes of predicting the future insurance loss exposure of an individual applicant or insured.
(9) "Personal insurance" shall mean private passenger automobile, homeowners, motorcycle, mobile homeowners, and noncommercial dwelling fire insurance policies and boat, personal watercraft, snowmobile, and recreational vehicle policies. Such policies must be individually underwritten for personal, family, or household use. No other type of insurance shall be included as personal insurance for the purpose of this article.

## History

Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 79, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
