# § 33-24-18. Contents of insurance policies and annuity contracts generally

(a) The written instrument in which a contract of insurance is set forth is the policy.
(b) Every policy shall specify:
  (1) The names of the parties to the contract;
  (2) The subject of the insurance;
  (3) The risks insured against;
  (4) The time when the insurance under the policy takes effect and the period during which the insurance is to continue;
  (5) The premium; and
  (6) The conditions pertaining to the insurance.
(c) If under the policy the exact amount of premium is determinable only at stated intervals or termination of the contract, a statement of the basis and rates upon which the premium is to be determined and paid shall be included.
(d) Subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section shall not apply to surety contracts or to group insurance policies.
(e) All policies and annuity contracts issued by admitted insurers and the forms of the policies and annuity contracts filed with the Commissioner shall have printed thereon an appropriate designating letter or figure or combination of letters or figures or terms identifying the respective forms of policies or contracts. Whenever any change is made in any form, the designating letters, figures, or terms thereon shall be correspondingly changed.
(f) All policies and annuity contracts shall contain such standard or uniform provisions as are required by the applicable provisions of this title pertaining to contracts of particular kinds of insurance.
(g) A policy may contain additional provisions which are not inconsistent with this title and which are:
  (1) Required to be inserted by the laws of the insurer's domicile;
  (2) Necessary, on account of the manner in which the insurer is constituted or operated, in order to state the rights and obligations of the parties to the contract; or
  (3) Desired by the insurer and neither prohibited by law nor in conflict with any provisions required to be included therein.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 31, eff. 7/1/2019.
