# § 33-24-56.3. Colorectal cancer screening and testing

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Health benefit policy" means any individual or group plan, policy, or contract for health care services issued, delivered, issued for delivery, executed, or renewed by an insurer in this state, including, but not limited to, those contracts executed by the Department of Community Health pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (d) of Code Section 31-2-4. The term "health benefit policy" does not include the following limited benefit insurance policies: accident only, CHAMPUS supplement, dental, disability income, fixed indemnity, long-term care, medicare supplement, specified disease, vision, and nonrenewable individual policies written for a period of less than six months.
  (2) "Insurer" means any person, corporation, or other entity authorized to provide health benefit policies under this title.
(b) Every health benefit policy shall provide coverage for colorectal cancer screening, examinations, and laboratory tests in accordance with guidelines and recommendations established by the American Cancer Society, in consultation with the American College of Gastroenterology and the American College of Radiology, for the ages, family histories, and frequencies referenced in such guidelines and recommendations and deemed appropriate by the attending physician after conferring with the patient.
(c) The benefits provided in this Code section shall be subject to the same annual deductibles or coinsurance established for all other covered benefits within a given health benefit policy.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 33, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 55, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-41, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 908, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
