# § 33-24-59.13. Exemptions from certain unfair trade practices for certain wellness and health improvement programs; incentives

(a) An insurer issuing life, comprehensive, major medical group, or individual health insurance benefit plans may, in keeping with federal requirements, offer wellness or health improvement programs, including voluntary wellness or health improvement programs that provide for rewards or incentives, including, but not limited to, merchandise, gift cards, debit cards, premium discounts, credits or rebates, contributions towards a member's health savings account, modifications to copayment, deductible, or coinsurance amounts, cash value, or any combination of these incentives, to encourage participation in such wellness or health improvement programs and to reward insureds for participation in such programs.
(b) The offering of such rewards or incentives to insureds under such wellness or health improvement programs shall not be considered an unfair trade practice under Code Section 33-6-4 if such programs are filed with the Commissioner and made a part of the life or health insurance master policy and certificates or the individual life or health insurance evidence of coverage as a policy amendment, endorsement, rider, or other form of policy material as agreed upon by the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall be authorized to develop an automatic or expedited approval process for review of such wellness or health improvement programs, including those programs already approved under the laws and regulations of other states.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 736,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 548,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
