# § 33-24-59.22. Prescription drug program defined; cost sharing; denial of coverage; dispensing fees

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "prescription drug program" means any individual or group plan, policy, or contract for prescription drug services issued, delivered, issued for delivery, executed, or renewed by an insurer in this state on or after July 1, 2017.
(b) A prescription drug program providing prescription drug coverage in this state shall permit and apply a prorated daily cost-sharing rate to prescriptions that are dispensed by a pharmacy for less than a 30 day supply if the prescriber or pharmacist indicates the fill or refill could be in the best interest of the insured patient or is for the purpose of synchronizing the insured patient's medications.
(c) No prescription drug program providing prescription drug coverage shall deny coverage for the dispensing of any drug prescribed for the treatment of an illness that is made in accordance with a plan among the insured, a practitioner, and a pharmacist to synchronize the refilling of multiple prescriptions for the insured.
(d) No prescription drug program providing prescription drug coverage shall use payment structures incorporating prorated dispensing fees determined by calculation of the days' supply of medication dispensed. Dispensing fees shall be determined exclusively on the total number of prescriptions dispensed.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 33, eff. 5/12/2019.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 272,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
