# § 33-24-22. Provision in health insurance policies for coverage of newly born or adopted children

(a) All individual and group health insurance policies providing coverage on an expense incurred basis and individual and group service or indemnity type contracts issued by a nonprofit corporation which, under the terms of such policies, provide coverage for a family member of the insured or subscriber shall, as to the family members' coverage, also provide that the health insurance benefits applicable for children shall be payable with respect to a newly born child of the insured or subscriber from the moment of birth. A newly born child of the insured or subscriber shall include an adopted child. The coverage for the adopted child shall be effective from the date of the placement for adoption or final decree of adoption, whichever occurs first.
(b) The coverage for newly born children or adopted children shall consist of coverage of injury or sickness, including the necessary care and treatment of medically diagnosed congenital defects and birth abnormalities, but need not include benefits for routine well baby care.
(c) If payment of a specific premium or subscription fee is required to provide coverage for a child, the policy or contract may require that notification of birth of a newly born child or the date of the placement for adoption or final adoption of a child and payment of the required premium or fees must be furnished to the insurer or nonprofit service or indemnity corporation within 31 days after the date of birth, placement for adoption, or final decree of adoption, whichever is applicable, in order to have the coverage continue beyond the 31 day period.
(d) This Code section shall not apply to persons adopted as adults pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 19-8-21, relating to the adoption of adult persons.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 33, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 34, eff. 7/1/2019.
