# § 33-24-14. Delivery of policies; applicability of Uniform Electronic Transactions Act; additional mailings

(a)
  (1) Subject to the insurer's requirement as to payment of premiums, every policy shall be mailed or delivered to the insured or to the person entitled to the policy within a reasonable period of time after its issuance except where a condition required by the insurer has not been met by the insured.
  (2) A policy required to be delivered under this subsection may be delivered by electronic transmittal in accordance with Chapter 12 of Title 10, the "Uniform Electronic Transactions Act," or by electronic posting if that policy is posted electronically, provided that:
    (A) The insured has agreed to accept delivery by electronic posting;
    (B) The insurer makes the policy accessible as long as the policy is in force;
    (C) After the expiration of the policy, the insurer archives its expired policies for a period of five years and makes them available upon request;
    (D) The insurer provides the following information in or simultaneously with each declarations page provided at the time of issuance of the initial policy and any renewals of that policy:
      (i) A description of the exact policy and endorsement forms purchased by the insured;
      (ii) A method by which the insured may obtain, upon request and without charge, a paper copy of such insured's policy; and
      (iii) The Internet address where the insured's policy and endorsement are posted; and
    (E) The insurer provides notice, in the manner in which the insurer customarily communicates with the insured, of any changes to the forms or endorsements, the insured's right to obtain, upon request and without charge, a paper copy of such forms or endorsements, and the Internet address where such forms or endorsements are posted.
(b) In the event the original policy is delivered or is required to be delivered to or for deposit with any vendor, mortgagee, or pledgee of any motor vehicle or aircraft, in which policy any interest of the vendee, mortgagor, or pledgor in or with reference to the vehicle or aircraft is insured, a duplicate of the policy setting forth the name and address of the insurer, the insurance classification of the vehicle or aircraft, the type of coverage, the limits of liability, the premiums for the respective coverages, and the duration of the policy or memorandum of the policy containing the same information shall be delivered by the vendor, mortgagee, or pledgee to each vendee, mortgagor, or pledgor named in the policy or coming within the group of persons designated in the policy to be so included. If the policy does not provide coverage of legal liability for injury to persons or damage to the property of third parties, a statement of such fact shall be printed, written, or stamped conspicuously on the face of the duplicate policy or memorandum.
(c) The provisions of Chapter 12 of Title 10, the "Uniform Electronic Transactions Act," apply to this title, and nothing in this Code section shall be construed to limit its applicability.
(d) In addition to any mailing which may be legally accomplished pursuant to Chapter 12 of Title 10, the "Uniform Electronic Transactions Act," any other required mailing may be performed electronically if the following conditions are met:
  (1) The Code section which requires a mailing specifically notes that mailing may be accomplished pursuant to this subsection;
  (2) The insured agrees to receive mailings electronically by signing a statement which reads: "I AGREE TO RECEIVE ALL MAILINGS AND COMMUNICATIONS ELECTRONICALLY. SUCH ELECTRONIC MAILING OR COMMUNICATIONS MAY EVEN INCLUDE CANCELLATION OR NONRENEWAL NOTICES";provided, however, that the Commissioner may approve the use of substantially similar language;
  (3) If the statement in paragraph (2) of this subsection is physically signed by the insured, then the statement must be in a separate document and written in all capital letters in at least 12 point font, or on a substantially similar form approved by the Commissioner. If the statement is signed electronically, then it must be signed according to a procedure which has been approved by the Commissioner; provided, however, that the Commissioner shall approve a procedure for obtaining a signature only if that procedure is designed to ensure that the statement is not presented in a misleading or confusing manner;
  (4) If the insurer becomes aware that the insured's email address at which such party has consented to receive notices or documents is no longer valid, the insurer shall send the notice or document as required by other applicable law;
  (5) The insurer must retain a record pursuant to Chapter 12 of Title 10, the "Uniform Electronic Transactions Act," of the mailing, including proof of the date of mailing and the address to which the mailing was sent. Such record must be retrievable for a period of five years after the date of such mailing and, if requested, must be transmitted to the Commissioner in a reasonable time;
  (6) The insured may withdraw his or her consent to receive mailings electronically;
  (7) All conditions have been met under Chapter 12 of Title 10, the "Uniform Electronic Transactions Act," so that the mailing could be accomplished electronically, unless the law requiring the mailing imposes a specific type of delivery method;
  (8) All conditions have been met under the federal Electronic Signatures in Global and National Commerce Act, 15 U.S.C. Section 7001, et seq. This Code section shall not modify, limit, or supersede Section 101(c) of such Act or authorize electronic delivery of any of the notices described in Section 103(b) of such Act; and
  (9) No insurance company shall cancel, refuse to issue, or refuse to renew any policy because the applicant or insured refuses to agree to receive mailings electronically pursuant to this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 33, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 33, eff. 5/9/2017.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 659,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2014.
