# § 33-24-28. Termination of coverage of dependent child upon attainment of specified age

(a) An individual hospital or medical expense insurance policy or hospital contract which provides that coverage of a dependent child shall terminate upon attainment of the limiting age for dependent children specified in the policy or contract shall also provide in substance that attainment of the limiting age shall not operate to terminate the coverage of the child while the child is and continues to be developmentally disabled or physically disabled, provided that proof of disability and dependency is furnished to the insurer or hospital by the policyholder or subscriber within 31 days of the child's attainment of the limiting age and subsequently as may be required by the insurer or corporation but not more frequently than annually after the two-year period following the child's attainment of the limiting age.
(b) A group hospital or medical expense insurance policy or hospital contract which provides that coverage of a dependent child of an employee or other member of the covered group shall terminate upon attainment of the limiting age for dependent children specified in the policy or contract shall also provide in substance that attainment of such limiting age shall not operate to terminate the coverage of the child while the child is and continues to be developmentally disabled or physically disabled, provided that proof of disability and dependency is furnished to the insurer or hospital by the employee or member within 31 days of the child's attainment of the limiting age and subsequently as may be required by the insurer or corporation but not more frequently than annually after the two-year period following the child's attainment of the limiting age.
(c) This Code section shall apply equally to health insurance policies issued pursuant to Chapters 29 and 30 of this title, coverage by health maintenance organizations under Chapter 21 of this title, and health care plans under Chapter 20 of this title.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 398,§ 5, eff. 4/22/2024.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 42, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 52,§ 22, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
