# § 33-24-20. Provision in accident and sickness policies for termination of coverage of surviving spouse or as result of break in marital relationship; issuance of policy to spouse

(a) No individual policy of accident and sickness insurance offered for sale in this state, other than a policy of credit accident and sickness insurance which provides coverage for hospital or medical expenses on either an expense incurred basis or other than on an expense incurred basis, which, in addition to covering the insured, also provides coverage to the spouse of the insured may contain a provision for termination of coverage for a spouse covered under the policy solely as a result of a break in the marital relationship except by reason of the death of the insured or of an entry of a valid decree of divorce between the parties.
(b) Every policy which contains a provision for termination of coverage of the spouse upon death of the insured or divorce shall contain a provision to the effect that, upon the death of the insured or the entry of a valid decree of divorce between the insured parties, the surviving or divorced spouse shall be entitled to have issued to him or her, without evidence of insurability, upon application made to the company within 31 days following the entry of such decree and upon the payment of the appropriate premium, an individual or family policy of accident and sickness insurance then being issued by the insurer which provides coverage most nearly similar to the coverage contained in the policy which was terminated by reason of death or divorce or any other similar individual or family policy then being issued by the insurer which contains lesser coverage. Any and all probationary or waiting periods set forth in such an individual or family policy shall be considered as being met to the extent coverage was in force under the prior policy.
(c) This Code section shall also apply to blanket accident and sickness insurance policies and to policies issued by a fraternal benefit society, a health care corporation, a health maintenance organization, or any other similar entity.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 52,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2017.
