# § 25-12-2. Definitions

(1) "Commissioner" means the Safety Fire Commissioner.
(2) "Engineered fire suppression system" means any fire suppression system having pipe lengths, number of fittings, number and types of nozzles, suppression agent flow rates, and nozzle pressures as determined by calculations derived from the appropriate standards of the National Fire Protection Association, whether those calculations are performed by hand or by a computer program or by other method of calculation. These systems may consist of other components, including, but not limited to, detection devices, alarm devices, and control devices as tested and approved by a nationally recognized testing laboratory and shall be manufacturer listed as compatible with the fire suppression system involved.
(3) "Fire suppression system" means any fire-fighting system employing a suppression agent with the purpose of controlling, suppressing, or extinguishing a fire in a specific hazard. The suppression agent shall be a currently recognized agent or water additive required to control, suppress, or extinguish a fire. The term fire suppression system shall include engineered and preengineered systems as defined in this chapter and shall not include those systems addressed in Chapter 11 of this title.
(4) "Firm" means any business, person, partnership, organization, association, corporation, contractor, subcontractor, or individual.
(5) "License" means the document issued by the Commissioner which authorizes a firm to engage in the business of installation, repair, alteration, recharging, inspection, maintenance, service, or testing of fire suppression systems or portable fire extinguishers.
(6) "Permit" means the document issued by the Commissioner which authorizes an individual to install, inspect, repair, recharge, service, or test fire suppression systems or portable fire extinguishers.
(7) "Portable fire extinguisher" means a portable device containing an extinguishing agent that can be expelled under pressure for the purpose of suppressing or extinguishing a fire. The device must be listed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. The device must bear a manufacturer's name and serial number. The listings, approvals, and serial numbers may be stamped on the manufacturer's identification and instruction plate or on a separate plate of the testing laboratory soldered or attached to the extinguisher shell in a permanent manner set forth by the listing or approving organization.
(8) "Preengineered fire suppression system" means any system having predetermined flow rates, nozzle pressures, and quantities of an extinguishing agent. These systems have the specific pipe size, maximum and minimum pipe lengths, flexible hose specifications, number of fittings, and number and types of nozzles prescribed by a nationally recognized testing laboratory. The hazards protected by these systems are specifically limited as to the type and size by the testing laboratory based upon actual fire tests. Limitations on hazards that can be protected by these systems are contained in the manufacturer's installation manual, which is referenced as part of the listing.
