# § 25-12-11. Requirements for issuance of license

(1) The applicant has submitted to the Commissioner evidence of registration as a Georgia corporation;
(2) The Commissioner or a person designated by him has by inspection determined that the applicant possesses the equipment required for the activities the applicant requests to be licensed to perform. If the applicant includes in the request the high-pressure hydrostatic testing of equipment, the applicant must submit a copy of its United States Department of Transportation approval and renewals. If the applicant includes in the request the transfer of Halogenated fire suppression agents, the applicant must submit a copy of the current Underwriter's Laboratories on-site inspection form for a manufacturer's represented Halon pumping station. The Commissioner shall give an applicant 60 days to correct any deficiencies discovered by inspection;
(3) The applicant has submitted to the Commissioner proof of a valid comprehensive liability insurance policy purchased from an insurer authorized to do business in Georgia. The coverage must include bodily injury and property damage, products liability, completed operations, and contractual liability. The proof of insurance must also be provided before any license can be renewed. The minimum amount of said coverage shall be $1 million or such other amount as specified by the Commissioner. An insurer which provides such coverage shall notify the Commissioner of any change in coverage; and
(4) The applicant, when filing an application for an examination, pays a nonrefundable filing fee fixed by rule or regulation of the Commissioner.
