# § 3-4-24-1. Distiller's license authorizing manufacture of distilled spirits from agricultural products other than perishable fruits; storage

(a) The commissioner may issue a license authorizing the manufacture of distilled spirits from agricultural products other than perishable fruits grown in this state.
(b) If any distilled spirits are manufactured as permitted by this Code section in any county, municipality, or county area exclusive of certain incorporated areas, as the case may be, in which the distilled spirits are not to be sold under the terms of this chapter, the licensee shall immediately store the distilled spirits or alcohol in a warehouse or warehouses designated by the commissioner to be sold or disposed of under the supervision of the commissioner in states, counties, or municipalities permitting the legal sale of distilled spirits or alcohol.
(c) It is unlawful for the licensee to sell or dispose of any such distilled spirits or alcohol:
  (1) In any municipality, county, or unincorporated area of a county in which the sale of distilled spirits or alcohol is prohibited by this chapter; or
  (2) To any person not holding an importer's, broker's, or wholesaler's license issued pursuant to this chapter or by another state.
(d) A manufacturer's or distiller's license may be issued pursuant to this Code section for the manufacture of distilled spirits from agricultural products other than perishable fruits in any county or municipality of this state that has approved either the package sale of distilled spirits or the sale of distilled spirits by the drink, or both, as provided in this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 178,§ 3, eff. 9/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 57,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 721,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
