# § 3-4-24. Issuance to fruit growers of license to manufacture distilled spirits; storage and disposition; limitations upon manufacture and sale; issuance of manufacturer's or distiller's license in certain counties or municipalities; tasting room limitations for certain licensees

(a) The commissioner may issue a license to a fruit grower authorizing the grower to manufacture distilled spirits from perishable fruits grown in this state.
(b) If any distilled spirits are manufactured as permitted by this Code section in any county, municipality, or county area exclusive of certain incorporated areas, as the case may be, in which the distilled spirits are not to be sold under the terms of this chapter, the licensee shall immediately store the distilled spirits or alcohol in a warehouse or warehouses designated by the commissioner to be sold or disposed of under the supervision of the commissioner in states, counties, or municipalities permitting the legal sale of distilled spirits or alcohol.
(c) It shall be unlawful for the licensee to sell or dispose of any such distilled spirits or alcohol:
  (1) In any municipality, county, or unincorporated area of a county in which the sale of distilled spirits or alcohol is prohibited by this chapter; or
  (2) To any person not holding an importer's, broker's, or wholesaler's license issued pursuant to this chapter or by another state.
(d) A manufacturer's or distiller's license may be issued pursuant to this Code section to a fruit grower for the manufacture of distilled spirits in any county or municipality of this state that has approved either the package sale of distilled spirits or the sale of distilled spirits by the drink, or both, as provided in this chapter.
(e) The commissioner may issue a license pursuant to this Code section to a fruit grower licensed as a farm winery authorizing such fruit grower to manufacture distilled spirits and fortified wines for sale exclusively through a licensed and designated wholesaler; provided, however, that the farm winery has no more than one tasting room located on its licensed premises. For purposes of this subsection, the term "licensed premises" shall mean the premises for which the farm winery license is issued or property located contiguous to the farm winery and owned by the winery.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 178,§ 2, eff. 9/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 57,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 516,§ 1, eff. 4/15/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 721,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
