# § 3-4-61. Payment of tax; report

(a) Except as may otherwise be authorized in this title, the state excise taxes imposed by this part shall be paid by the licensed wholesale dealer in distilled spirits; provided, however, that such taxes shall be imposed upon and shall be paid by the licensed distiller for distilled spirits served or sold by the distiller directly to the public pursuant to Code Section 3-4-24.2.
(b) The taxes shall be paid on or before the tenth day of the month following the calendar month in which the beverages are sold or disposed of within the particular municipality or county by the wholesale dealer.
(c) Each licensee responsible for the payment of the excise tax shall file a report itemizing for the preceding calendar month, by size and type of container, the exact quantities of distilled spirits sold during the month within the state. The licensee shall file the report with the commissioner.
(d) The licensee shall remit to the commissioner the tax imposed by the state on the tenth day of the month following the calendar month in which the sales were made.
(e) In order to phase in the reporting system of excise tax payment for distilled spirits and alcohol:
  (1) The commissioner shall direct that no later than January 31, 1993, all persons who made excise tax payments in respect of distilled spirits and alcohol sales in the State of Georgia during the calendar year 1992 shall make a one-time deposit equal to the amount of 25 percent of said tax payments. This one-time advance shall be repaid in full by the state in equal semiannual installments over the period of 24 months following August 1, 1993; except that, in the event wholesalers made payments as provided for in this paragraph, the commissioner shall repay such wholesalers in the form of semiannual credits against future tax liability;
  (2) On February 1, 1993, or as soon thereafter as practicable, the commissioner shall direct that an inventory be taken of stamped merchandise and tax stamps held by manufacturers, shippers, and wholesalers. The commissioner shall issue refunds to all manufacturers and shippers for the value of tax stamps in their possession on February 1, 1993, to be paid in 12 equal installments beginning on August 1, 1993. The commissioner shall issue tax credits to wholesalers for stamps in inventory on February 1, 1993, which shall be applied as credits against the wholesaler's future tax liability for the 12 month period beginning with the report due on August 10, 1993;
  (3) Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to impose an additional excise tax on distilled spirits and alcohol held in inventory by wholesalers and retailers above the excise tax paid prior to February 1, 1993; and
  (4) The commissioner shall adopt rules and regulations for the implementation of a reporting method of paying distilled spirits and alcohol excise taxes as well as the elimination of the use of any type of distilled spirits and alcohol stamp. The commissioner shall have full authority to allow credits or make refunds as provided for in this subsection.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 178,§ 6, eff. 9/1/2017.
