# § 3-4-46. Procedure for conduct of election for purpose of nullifying previous election result

(a) In any county or municipality which has at any time held a referendum election in accordance with this article, resulting in the approval of the issuance of licenses for the package sale of distilled spirits, the election superintendent of the county or municipality shall, upon the filing of an ordinance, resolution, or petition as provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 3-4-41, proceed to call another referendum election in the same manner as provided in this article for the purpose of nullifying the previous referendum election result.
(b) In the event an election referendum is held pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section and a majority of the votes cast are against the issuance of licenses for the package sale of distilled spirits, then no new licenses for the package sale of distilled spirits within the political subdivision conducting the referendum shall be issued and any existing licensee issued a license for the package sale of distilled spirits shall be prohibited, effective upon the expiration of such license, from engaging in any package sales of distilled spirits within the political subdivision.
(c) No election held pursuant to this Code section shall be called or held within two years after the date of the declaration by the election superintendent of the results of the previous election held for such purpose under this article.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 212,§ 2, eff. 5/4/2021.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 277,§ 2, eff. 5/9/2017.
