# § 3-4-22. Filing of bonds by applicants for licenses generally

(a) All applicants for all licenses issued pursuant to this chapter shall file with the commissioner, along with each initial application, a bond:
  (1) Conditioned to pay all sums which may become due by the applicant to this state as taxes, license fees, or otherwise, arising out of the operation of the business for which licensure is sought; and
  (2) Conditioned to pay all penalties which may be imposed upon the applicant for failure to comply with the laws and rules and regulations pertaining to distilled spirits. The surety for the bonds shall be a surety company licensed to do business in this state, and the bonds shall be in such form as may be required by the commissioner and may be for a term of up to five calendar years.
(b) The bonds shall be in the following calendar year amounts:
  (1) For distillers and manufacturers, $10,000.00;
  (2) For wholesale dealers and importers, $5,000.00; and
  (3) For retail dealers and brokers, $2,500.00.
(c) All applicants for annual renewal of licenses issued pursuant to this chapter, other than retail licenses, shall file an annual bond or have a multiyear bond on file with the department that extends at least through the end of the calendar year for which renewal is sought. Such bonds shall meet the same conditions as those filed with the initial application.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 631,§ 1, eff. 4/26/2014.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 510,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2006.
