# § 3-4-47. Adoption of resolutions and ordinances; determination of location of retail or businesses licensed by local governing authorities

(a) A municipality or county may adopt resolutions and ordinances, consistent with this title, as may fall within the police powers of the municipality or county to regulate any business described in this chapter; provided, however, that on and after July 1, 1997, no municipality or county shall authorize the location of a new retail package liquor licensed place of business or the relocation of an existing retail package liquor licensed place of business engaged in the retail package sales of distilled spirits within 500 yards of any other business licensed to sell package liquor at retail, as measured by the most direct route of travel on the ground; provided, however, that this limitation shall not apply to any hotel licensed under this chapter. The restriction provided for in this subsection shall not apply at any location for which a license has been issued prior to July 1, 1997, nor to the renewal of such license. Nor shall the restriction of this subsection apply to any location for which a new license is applied for if the sale of distilled spirits was lawful at such location at any time during the 12 months immediately preceding such application.
(b) The local governing authority of a municipality or county issuing licenses pursuant to this article shall within its jurisdiction have the authority to determine the location of any retail business it licenses, not inconsistent with this title.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 277,§ 2, eff. 5/9/2017.
