# § 19-3-41.1. Fact sheet for distribution by premarital education providers; requirements

(a) The Department of Public Health shall prepare a fact sheet for public availability and for distribution by premarital education providers. The Department of Public Health shall make such fact sheet available in electronic form, including, but not limited to, a version that can be legibly printed in a poster size of up to 24 by 36 inches.
(b) The fact sheet provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section shall:
  (1) Include basic information about the legal rights and responsibilities of parties to a marriage as well as information about dating violence, sexual assault, stalking, domestic violence, and human trafficking, including, but not limited to, the warning signs and behaviors of an abusive partner and the dynamics of domestic violence and other forms of coercive control. Such fact sheet shall also include basic information about the rights of victims of such violence and the resources available to them, including, but not limited to, website and telephone resources, legal assistance, confidential shelters, and civil protective orders; and
  (2) Be developed in partnership with the Georgia Commission on Family Violence and any other agencies in the discretion of the Department of Public Health that serve survivors of dating violence, sexual assault, and human trafficking.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 388,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 187,§ 1-5, eff. 7/1/2019.
