# § 19-3-35.1. AIDS brochures; listing of HIV test sites; acknowledgment of receipt

(a) Any term used in this Code section and defined in Code Section 31-22-9.1 shall have the meaning provided for such term in Code Section 31-22-9.1.
(b) The Department of Public Health shall prepare a brochure describing AIDS, HIV, and the dangers, populations at risk, risk behaviors, and prevention measures relating thereto. That department shall also prepare a listing of sites at which confidential and anonymous HIV tests are provided without charge. That department shall further prepare a form for acknowledging that the brochures and listings have been received, as required by subsection (c) of this Code section. The brochures, listings, and forms prepared by the Department of Public Health (formerly known as the Department of Human Resources for these purposes) under this subsection shall be prepared and furnished to the office of each judge of the probate court no later than October 1, 1988.
(c) On and after October 1, 1988, each person who makes application for a marriage license shall receive from the office of the probate judge at the time of the application the AIDS brochure and listing of HIV test sites prepared and furnished pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section. On and after October 1, 1988, no marriage license shall be issued unless both the proposed husband and the proposed wife sign a form acknowledging that both have received the brochure and listing.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-16, eff. 7/1/2009.
