# § 19-3-33. Application for marriage license; contents; supplement marriage report

(a) A marriage license shall be issued on written application therefor, made by the persons seeking the license, verified by oath of the applicants. The application shall state that there is no legal impediment to the marriage and shall give the full present name of the proposed husband and the full present name of the proposed wife with their dates of birth, their present addresses, and the names of the father and mother of each, if known. If the names of the father or mother of either are unknown, the application shall so state. The application shall state that the persons seeking the license have or have not completed premarital education pursuant to Code Section 19-3-30.1. If the application states that the applicants seeking issuance of the license have completed premarital education, then the applicants shall submit a signed and dated certificate of completion issued by the premarital education provider.
(b) An application supplement-marriage report shall be prepared in connection with each marriage license. Except for the information in paragraph (3) of this subsection, the application supplement-marriage report shall be completed as a part of each application for a marriage license. The application supplement-marriage report shall state, at a minimum, the following:
  (1) The full name, date of birth, and social security number for each applicant;
  (2) The number this marriage would be for each applicant; and
  (3) After the ceremonial marriage has been performed, the date of the marriage ceremony and the county where the marriage ceremony occurred.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 410,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2005.
