# § 16-13-61. Electronic Database Review Advisory Committee; members; terms; officers; procedure; compensation

(a) There is established an Electronic Database Review Advisory Committee for the purposes of consulting with and advising the department on matters related to the establishment, maintenance, and operation of how prescriptions are electronically reviewed pursuant to this part. This shall include, but shall not be limited to, data collection, regulation of access to data, evaluation of data to identify benefits and outcomes of the reviews, communication to prescribers and dispensers as to the intent of the reviews and how to use the PDMP, and security of data collected.
(b) The advisory committee shall consist of 12 members as follows:
  (1) A representative from the agency;
  (2) A representative from the Georgia Composite Medical Board;
  (3) A representative from the Georgia Board of Dentistry;
  (4) A representative with expertise in personal privacy matters, appointed by the president of the State Bar of Georgia;
  (5) A representative from a specialty profession that deals in addictive medicine, appointed by the Georgia Composite Medical Board;
  (6) A pain management specialist, appointed by the Georgia Composite Medical Board;
  (7) An oncologist, appointed by the Georgia Composite Medical Board;
  (8) A representative from a hospice or hospice organization, appointed by the Georgia Composite Medical Board;
  (9) A representative from the State Board of Optometry;
  (10) The consumer member appointed by the Governor to the State Board of Pharmacy pursuant to subsection (b) of Code Section 26-4-21;
  (11) A pharmacist from the State Board of Pharmacy; and
  (12) A representative from the Department of Public Health.
(c) Each member of the advisory committee shall serve a three-year term or until the appointment and qualification of such member's successor.
(d) The advisory committee shall elect a chairperson and vice chairperson from among its membership to serve a term of one year. The vice chairperson shall serve as the chairperson at times when the chairperson is absent.
(e) The advisory committee shall meet at the call of the chairperson or upon request by at least three of the members and shall meet at least one time per year. Five members of the committee shall constitute a quorum.
(f) The members shall receive no compensation or reimbursement of expenses from the state for their services as members of the advisory committee.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 141,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2017.
Added by 2011 Ga. Laws 229,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
