# § 16-13-30.7. Possession of a pill press, tableting machine, encapsulating machine, or other controlled substance counterfeiting materials

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Controlled substance" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 16-13-21.
  (2) "Controlled substance counterfeiting material" means a punch, die, plate, stone, or other item designed to print, imprint, or reproduce the trademark, trade name, or other identifying mark, imprint, or device of another or any likeness of any of the foregoing upon a drug or container or the labeling thereof so as to render such drug a counterfeit substance.
  (3) "Counterfeit substance" has the same meaning as provided in Code Section 16-13-21.
  (4) "Encapsulating machine" means manual, semiautomatic, or fully automatic equipment that may be used to fill shells or capsules with powdered or granular solids or semisolid material to produce coherent solid tablets.
  (5) "Pill press" means a mechanical device that compresses powder substances into tablets by running such powder substance through a machine fitted with a die mold that determines the shape and markings on such tablets.
  (6) "Regulated person" means a person or entity described in paragraph (22), (28), (29), (30), (33), or (41) of Code Section 26-4-5.
  (7) "Tableting machine" means manual, semiautomatic, or fully automatic equipment that may be used to compact or mold powdered or granular solids or semisolid material to produce coherent solid tablets.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person other than a regulated person to possess, purchase, deliver, sell, or possess with intent to sell or deliver a pill press or tableting machine, an encapsulating machine, or other controlled substance counterfeiting materials knowing, intending, or having reasonable cause to believe that such items or materials will be used to manufacture a controlled substance or counterfeit substance.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section, a person who violates this Code section shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than ten years.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 504,§ 3, eff. 4/30/2024.
