# § 16-13-52. Programs and research on prevention of abuse of controlled substances; confidentiality of research; exemption from penalties

(a) The State Board of Pharmacy and the Georgia Drugs and Narcotics Agency shall carry out programs designed to prevent and deter misuse and abuse of controlled substances.
(b) The State Board of Pharmacy and the Georgia Drugs and Narcotics Agency shall encourage research on misuse and abuse of controlled substances. In connection with the research and in furtherance of the enforcement of this article, they may:
  (1) Establish methods to assess accurately the effects of controlled substances and identify and characterize those with potential for abuse;
  (2) Make studies and undertake programs of research to:
    (A) Develop new or improved approaches, techniques, systems, equipment, and devices to strengthen the enforcement of this article;
    (B) Determine patterns of misuse and abuse of controlled substances and the social effects thereof;
    (C) Improve methods for preventing, predicting, understanding, and dealing with the misuse and abuse of controlled substances; and
  (3) Enter into agreements with public agencies, institutions of higher education, and private organizations or individuals for the purpose of conducting research, demonstrations, or special projects which bear directly on misuse and abuse of controlled substances.
(c) The State Board of Pharmacy, in the public interest, may authorize persons engaged in research on the use and effects of controlled substances to withhold the names and other identifying characteristics of individuals who are the subjects of the research. Persons who obtain this authorization are not to be compelled in any civil, criminal, administrative, legislative, or other proceeding to identify the individuals who are the subjects of research for which the authorization was obtained.
(d) The State Board of Pharmacy may authorize the possession and distribution of controlled substances by persons engaged in research. Persons who obtain this authorization are exempt from state prosecution for possession and distribution of controlled substances to the extent of the authorization.
