# § 16-13-26. Schedule II

(1) Any of the following substances, or salts thereof, except those narcotic drugs specifically exempted or listed in other schedules, whether produced directly or indirectly by extraction from substances of vegetable origin, or independently by extraction from substances of vegetable origin, or independently by means of chemical synthesis, or by combination of extraction and chemical synthesis:
  (A) Opium and opiate, and any salt, compound, derivative, or preparation of opium or opiate, excluding naloxone hydrochloride, but including the following:
    (i) Raw opium;
    (ii) Opium extracts;
    (iii) Opium fluid extracts;
    (iv) Powdered opium;
    (v) Granulated opium;
    (vi) Tincture of opium;
    (vii) Codeine;
    (viii) Ethylmorphine;
    (ix) Hydrocodone;
    (x) Hydromorphone;
    (xi) Metopon;
    (xii) Morphine;
    (xiii) Oripavine;
    (xiv) Oxycodone;
    (xv) Oxymorphone;
    (xvi) Thebaine;
  (B) Any salt, compound, isomer, derivative, or preparation thereof which is chemically equivalent or identical with any of the substances referred to in subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, except that these substances shall not include the isoquinoline alkaloids of opium;
  (C) Opium poppy and poppy straw;
  (D) Cocaine, coca leaves, any salt, compound, derivative, stereoisomers of cocaine, or preparation of coca leaves, and any salt, compound, derivative, stereoisomers of cocaine, or preparation thereof which is chemically equivalent or identical with any of these substances, but not including decocainized coca leaves or extractions which do not contain cocaine or ecgonine;
(2) Any of the following opiates, including their isomers, esters, ethers, salts, and salts of isomers, whenever the existence of these isomers, esters, ethers, and salts is possible within the specific chemical designation:
  (A) Alfentanil;
  (A.1) Alphaprodine;
  (B) Anileridine;
  (C) Bezitramide;
  (C.5) Carfentanil;
  (D) Dihydrocodeine;
  (E) Diphenoxylate;
  (F) Fentanyl;
  (G) Isomethadone;
  (G.5) Levo-alphacetylmethadol (some other names: levomethadyl acetate, LAAM);
  (H) Levomethorphan;
  (I) Levorphanol;
  (J) Methazocine;
  (K) Methadone;
  (L) Methadone-Intermediate, 4-cyano-2-dimethylamino-4, 4-diphenyl butane;
  (M) Moramide-Intermediate, 2-methyl-3-morpholino-1, 1-diphenyl-propane-carboxylic acid;
  (M.3) Norfentanyl;
  (M.5) Oliceridine;
  (N) Pethidine (meperidine);
  (O) Pethidine-Intermediate-A, 4-cyano-1-methyl-4-phenylpiperidine;
  (P) Pethidine-Intermediate-B, ethyl-4-phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylate;
  (Q) Pethidine-Intermediate-C, 1-methyl-4-phenylpiperidine-4-carboxylic acid;
  (R) Phenazocine;
  (S) Piminodine;
  (T) Racemethorphan;
  (U) Racemorphan;
  (U.1) Remifentanil;
  (V) Sufentanil;
  (V.1) Tapentadol;
  (V.2) Thiafentanil;
  (W) 4-anilino-N-phenethyl-4-piperidine (ANPP);
(3) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances included as having a stimulant effect on the central nervous system:
  (A) Amphetamine, its salts, optical isomers, and salts of its optical isomers;
  (B) Any substance which contains any quantity of methamphetamine, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers;
  (C) Phenmetrazine and its salts;
  (D) Methylphenidate, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers;
  (E) Reserved;
  (F) Nabilone;
  (G) Lisdexamfetamine;
(4) Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any of the following substances included as having a depressant effect on the central nervous system, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation:
  (A) Amobarbital;
  (A.5) Glutethimide;
  (B) Secobarbital;
  (C) Pentobarbital;
(5) Dronabinol in oral solution labeled in compliance with U.S. Food and Drug Administration requirements.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 191,§ 5, eff. 5/4/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 373,§ 5, eff. 5/3/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 182,§ 7-3 and § 7-4, eff. 5/8/2017.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 17,§ 5 and § 6, eff. 4/17/2017.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 619,§ 2, eff. 6/4/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 43,§ 1, eff. 4/21/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 433,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 331,§ 1, eff. 5/29/2007.
