# § 16-13-41. Prescriptions

(a) Except when dispensed directly by a registered practitioner, other than a pharmacy or pharmacist, to an ultimate user, no controlled substance in Schedule II may be dispensed without the written prescription of a registered practitioner.
(b) When a practitioner writes a prescription drug order to cause the dispensing of a Schedule II substance, he or she shall include the name and address of the person for whom it is prescribed, the kind and quantity of such Schedule II controlled substance, the directions for taking, the signature, and the name, address, telephone number, and DEA registration number of the prescribing practitioner. Such prescription shall be signed and dated by the practitioner on the date when issued, and the nature of such signature shall be defined in regulations promulgated by the State Board of Pharmacy. Prescription drug orders for Schedule II controlled substances may be transmitted via facsimile machine or other electronic means only in accordance with regulations promulgated by the State Board of Pharmacy in accordance with Code Section 26-4-80 or 26-4-80.1, or in accordance with DEA regulations at 21 C.F.R. 1306.
(c) In emergency situations, as defined by rule of the State Board of Pharmacy, Schedule II drugs may be dispensed upon oral prescription of a registered practitioner, reduced promptly to writing and filed by the pharmacy. Prescriptions shall be retained in conformity with the requirements of Code Section 16-13-39. No prescription for a Schedule II substance may be refilled.
(d)
  (1) Except when dispensed directly by a practitioner, other than a pharmacy or pharmacist, to an ultimate user, a controlled substance included in Schedule III, IV, or V, which is a prescription drug as determined under any law of this state or the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C. Section 301, 52 Stat. 1040 (1938), shall not be dispensed without a written or oral prescription of a registered practitioner. The prescription shall not be filled or refilled more than six months after the date on which such prescription was issued or be refilled more than five times.
  (2) When a practitioner writes a prescription drug order to cause the dispensing of a Schedule III, IV, or V controlled substance, he or she shall include the name and address of the person for whom it is prescribed, the kind and quantity of such controlled substance, the directions for taking, the signature, and the name, address, telephone number, and DEA registration number of the practitioner. Such prescription shall be signed and dated by the practitioner on the date when issued or may be issued orally, and the nature of the signature of the prescriber shall meet the guidelines set forth in Chapter 4 of Title 26, the regulations promulgated by the State Board of Pharmacy, or both such guidelines and regulations.
(e) A controlled substance included in Schedule V shall not be distributed or dispensed other than for a legitimate medical purpose.
(f) No person shall prescribe or order the dispensing of a controlled substance, except a registered practitioner who is:
  (1) Licensed or otherwise authorized by this state to prescribe controlled substances;
  (2) Acting in the usual course of his professional practice; and
  (3) Prescribing or ordering such controlled substances for a legitimate medical purpose.
(g) No person shall fill or dispense a prescription for a controlled substance except a person who is licensed by this state as a pharmacist or a pharmacy intern acting under the immediate and direct personal supervision of a licensed pharmacist in a pharmacy licensed by the State Board of Pharmacy, provided that this subsection shall not prohibit a registered physician, dentist, veterinarian, or podiatrist authorized by this state to dispense controlled substances as provided in this article if such registered person complies with all record-keeping, labeling, packaging, and storage requirements regarding such controlled substances and imposed upon pharmacists and pharmacies in this chapter and in Chapter 4 of Title 26 and complies with the requirements of Code Section 26-4-130.
(h) It shall be unlawful for any practitioner to issue any prescription document signed in blank. The issuance of such document signed in blank shall be prima-facie evidence of a conspiracy to violate this article. The possession of a prescription document signed in blank by a person other than the person whose signature appears thereon shall be prima-facie evidence of a conspiracy between the possessor and the signer to violate the provisions of this article.
(i)
  (1) Pharmacists may dispense prescriptions from a remote location for the benefit of an institution that uses a remote automated medication system in accordance with the requirements set forth in the rules and regulations adopted by the State Board of Pharmacy pursuant to paragraph (12.1) of subsection (a) of Code Section 26-4-28.
  (2) As used in this subsection, the term "institution" means a skilled nursing facility or a hospice licensed as such under Chapter 7 of Title 31.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 75,§ 2, eff. 5/11/2011.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 16, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 80, § 7, eff. 5/29/2003.
