# § 16-13-79. Violations

(a) Except as provided in subsections (b), (c), and (d) of this Code section, any person who violates this article shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(b) Any person who distributes or possesses with the intent to distribute nitrous oxide for any use other than for a medical treatment prescribed by the order of a licensed medical practitioner, except as provided for by paragraph (16) of subsection (c) of Code Section 16-13-71, shall be guilty of a felony and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one year nor more than three years or by a fine not to exceed $5,000.00 or both.
(c) Any person who distributes or possesses with the intent to distribute to any person under 18 years of age nitrous oxide for any use other than for a medical treatment prescribed by the order of a licensed medical practitioner, except as provided for by paragraph (16) of subsection (c) of Code Section 16-13-71, shall be guilty of a felony and upon conviction thereof shall be punished for not less than two years nor more than six years or by a fine not to exceed $10,000.00 or both.
(d) This article shall not apply to any person who possesses, distributes, sells, or uses nitrous oxide for food preparation in a restaurant, for food service, or in household products.
(e) Any person who knowingly distributes or resells any nonprescription injectable insulin product which was first obtained through an over-the-counter sale made to a patient from any pharmacy, practitioner, or other source shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. All such injectable insulin distributed or sold in this manner is considered to be an adulterated dangerous drug and unsalable, making it subject to seizure under the laws of this state.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 603,§ 9, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 433,§ 9, eff. 5/6/2008.
