# § 16-13-110. Definitions

(a) As used in this article, the term:
  (1) "Controlled substance" means any drug, substance, or immediate precursor included in the definition of the term "controlled substance" in paragraph (4) of Code Section 16-13-21.
  (2) "Convicted" or "conviction" refers to a final conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction, or the acceptance of a plea of guilty or nolo contendere or affording of first offender treatment by a court of competent jurisdiction.
  (3) "Licensed individual" means any individual to whom any department, agency, board, bureau, or other entity of state government has issued any license, permit, registration, certification, or other authorization to conduct a licensed occupation.
  (4) "Licensed occupation" means any occupation, profession, business, trade, or other commercial activity which requires for its lawful conduct the issuance to an individual of any license, permit, registration, certification, or other authorization by any department, agency, board, bureau, or other entity of state government.
  (5) "Licensing authority" means any department, agency, board, bureau, or other entity of state government which issues to individuals any license, permit, registration, certification, or other authorization to conduct a licensed occupation.
  (6) "Marijuana" means any substance included in the definition of the term "marijuana" in paragraph (16) of Code Section 16-13-21.
(b) Without limiting the generality of the provisions of subsection (a) of this Code section, the practice of law shall constitute a licensed occupation for purposes of this article and the Supreme Court of Georgia shall be the licensing authority for the practice of law.
