# § 16-13-30.4. Products containing pseudoephedrine

(a) As used in this Code section and unless otherwise specified, the term "board" or "board of pharmacy" shall mean the State Board of Pharmacy.
(b)
  (1) A wholesale distributor who sells, transfers, purchases for resale, or otherwise furnishes any product containing pseudoephedrine must first obtain a license from the board of pharmacy; provided, however, that a wholesale distributor that has a valid license as a wholesale distributor under Code Section 26-4-113 shall not be required to obtain an additional license under this Code section.
  (2) Wholesale distributors licensed under Code Section 26-4-113 shall be subject to the provisions of this Code section in the same manner as wholesale distributors licensed under this Code section.
  (3) Every wholesale distributor licensed as provided in this Code section shall:
    (A) Submit reports, upon verbal or written request from the Georgia Drugs and Narcotics Agency, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, or the sheriff of a county or the police chief of a municipality located in this state, to account for all transactions with persons or firms located within this state; such reportable transactions shall include all sales, distribution, or transactions dealing with products containing pseudoephedrine; and
    (B) Within seven days, notify the Georgia Drugs and Narcotics Agency of any purchases of products containing pseudoephedrine from the wholesale distributor which the wholesaler judges to be excessive.
  (4) Whenever any firm or person located in this state receives, purchases, or otherwise gains access to products containing pseudoephedrine from any wholesale distributor, whether located in or outside this state, such firm or person shall maintain a copy of such wholesale distributor's license issued by the State Board of Pharmacy. Such firm or person shall maintain copies of all invoices, receipts, and other records regarding such products containing pseudoephedrine for a minimum of three years from the date of receipt, purchase, or access. Failure to maintain records to verify the presence of any and all products containing pseudoephedrine being held by a firm or person shall subject such products containing pseudoephedrine to being embargoed or seized by proper law enforcement authorities until such time as proof can be shown that such products containing pseudoephedrine were obtained from a Georgia licensed wholesale distributor.
  (5) Agents of the Georgia Drugs and Narcotics Agency, agents of the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, and the sheriff of a county or the police chief of a county or municipality in this state in which a firm or person that receives, purchases, or otherwise gains access to products containing pseudoephedrine is located may request to review the receiving records for such products. Failure to provide such records within five business days following such request to account for the presence of such products shall result in the embargo or seizure of such products.
(c) A license or permit obtained pursuant to this Code section shall be denied, suspended, or revoked by the board of pharmacy upon finding that the licensee or permit holder has:
  (1) Furnished false or fraudulent material information in any application filed under this Code section;
  (2) Been convicted of a crime under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
  (3) Had his or her federal registration suspended or revoked to manufacture, distribute, or dispense controlled substances;
  (4) Violated the provisions of Chapter 4 of Title 26; or
  (5) Failed to maintain effective controls against the diversion of products containing pseudoephedrine to unauthorized persons or entities.
(d) The board of pharmacy may adopt reasonable rules and regulations to effectuate the provisions of this Code section. The board is further authorized to charge reasonable fees to defray expenses incurred in issuing any licenses or permits, maintaining any records or forms required by this Code section, and the administration of the provisions of this Code section.
(e) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Code section to the contrary, no person shall be required to obtain a license or permit for the sale, receipt, transfer, or possession of a product containing pseudoephedrine when:
  (1) Such lawful distribution takes place in the usual course of business between agents or employees of a single regulated person or entity; or
  (2) A product containing pseudoephedrine is delivered to or by a common or contract carrier for carriage in the lawful and usual course of the business of the common or contract carrier or to or by a warehouseman for storage in the lawful and usual course of the business of the warehouseman.
(f) Any products containing pseudoephedrine that have been or that are intended to be sold, transferred, purchased for resale, possessed, or otherwise transferred in violation of a provision of this Code section and any proceeds are declared to be contraband and no person shall have a property right in them and shall be forfeited according to the procedure set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9. As used in this subsection, the term "proceeds" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 9-16-2.
(g)
  (1) Any person who sells, transfers, receives, or possesses a product containing pseudoephedrine violates this Code section if the person:
    (A) Knowingly fails to comply with the reporting requirements of this Code section;
    (B) Knowingly makes a false statement in a report or record required by this Code section or the rules adopted thereunder; or
    (C) Is required by this Code section to have a license or permit and knowingly or deliberately fails to obtain such a license or permit.
  (2) It shall be illegal for a person to possess, sell, transfer, or otherwise furnish a product containing pseudoephedrine if such person possesses, sells, transfers, or furnishes the substance with the knowledge or intent that the substance will be used in the unlawful manufacture of a controlled substance.
  (3)
    (A) A person who violates paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by imprisonment for not less than one nor more than 15 years or by a fine not to exceed $100,000.00, or both.
    (B) A person who violates any provision of this Code Section other than paragraph (2) of this subsection shall be guilty of a misdemeanor on the first offense and a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature on the second and subsequent offenses.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 2-18, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 16, eff. 5/11/2007.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 45,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2005.
