# § 16-13-28. Schedule IV

(a) The controlled substances listed in this Code section are included in Schedule IV. Unless specifically excepted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of the following substances, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specified chemical designation, included as having a stimulant or depressant effect on the central nervous system or a hallucinogenic effect:
  (1) Alfaxalone;
  (1.5) Armodafinil;
  (2) Barbital;
  (2.05) Brexanolone;
  (2.1) Bromazepam;
  (2.15) Butorphanol;
  (2.25) Carisoprodol;
  (2.3) Cathine;
  (3) Chloral betaine;
  (4) Chloral hydrate;
  (5) Chlordiazepoxide, but not including librax (chlordiazepoxide hydrochloride and clidinium bromide) or menrium (chlordiazepoxide and water soluble esterified estrogens);
  (5.1) Clobazam;
  (6) Reserved;
  (7) Clotiazepam;
  (8) Daridorexant;
  (8.1) Deschloroetizolam;
  (8.5) Dexfenfluramine;
  (9) Reserved;
  (10) Reserved;
  (11) Diethylpropion;
  (11.05) Difenoxin;
  (11.5) Eluxadoline;
  (12) Ethchlorvynol;
  (13) Ethinamate;
  (13.2) Fencamfamin;
  (14) Reserved;
  (14.2) Fenproporex;
  (14.5) Fluclotizolam;
  (15) Fospropofol;
  (16) Indiplon;
  (16.5) Lemborexant;
  (17) Lorcaserin;
  (18) Mazindol;
  (19) Mebutamate;
  (19.2) Mefenorex;
  (20) Meprobamate;
  (21) Methohexital;
  (22) Methylphenobarbital;
  (22.1) Modafinil;
  (23) Reserved;
  (24) Paraldehyde;
  (25) Pemoline;
  (26) Pentazocine;
  (27) Petrichloral;
  (28) Phenobarbital;
  (29) Phentermine;
  (29.1) Pipradrol;
  (30) Propofol;
  (30.05) Propoxyphene (including all salts and optical isomers);
  (30.07) Pyrazolam;
  (30.1) Quazepam;
  (30.15) Remimazolam;
  (30.17) Serdexmethylphenidate;
  (30.2) Sibutramine;
  (30.25) Solriamfetol, including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers;
  (30.3) SPA (-)-1-dimethylamino-1, 2-diphenylethane;
  (30.5) Suvorexant;
  (31) Reserved;
  (31.5) Tramadol [2-((dimethylamino)methyl)-1-(3-methoxy-phenyl) cyclohexanol, its salts, optical and geometric isomers, and salts of these isomers];
  (32) Zaleplon;
  (33) Zolpidem;
  (34) Zopiclone (including its salts, isomers, and salts of isomers);
  (35) Zuranolone.
(b) The controlled substances in the benzodiazepine structural class include any of the following compounds, derivatives, their salts, isomers, or salts of isomers, halogen analogues, or homologues, unless specifically utilized as part of the manufacturing process by a commercial industry of a substance or material not intended for human ingestion or consumption, as a prescription administered under medical supervision, or for research at a recognized institution, whenever the existence of these salts, isomers, or salts of isomers, halogen analogues, or homologues is possible within the specific chemical designation or unless specifically excepted or listed in this or another schedule, structurally derived from 1,4-benzodiazepine by substitution at the 5-position with a phenyl ring system (which may itself be further substituted), whether or not the compound is further modified in any of the following ways:
  (1) By substitution at the 2-position with a ketone or a thione;
  (2) By substitution at the 3-position with a hydroxyl group or ester group, which itself may be further substituted;
  (3) By a fused triazole ring at the 1,2- position, which itself may be further substituted;
  (4) By a fused imidazole ring at the 1,2- position, which itself may be further substituted;
  (5) By a fused oxazolidine ring at the 4,5- position, which itself may be further substituted;
  (6) By a fused oxazine ring at the 4,5- position, which itself may be further substituted;
  (7) By substitution at the 7-position with a nitro group;
  (8) By substitution at the 7-position with a halogen group; or
  (9) By substitution at the 1-position with an alkyl group, which itself may be further substituted.
(c) The State Board of Pharmacy may except by rule any compound, mixture, or preparation containing any depressant, stimulant, or hallucinogenic substance listed in subsection (a) or (b) of this Code section from the application of all or any part of this article if the compound, mixture, or preparation contains one or more active, medicinal ingredients not having a depressant or stimulant effect on the central nervous system, and if the admixtures are included therein in combinations, quantity, proportion, or concentration that vitiate the potential for abuse of the substances which have a depressant or stimulant effect on the central nervous system.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 411,§ 6, eff. 4/22/2024.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 66,§ 3, eff. 5/1/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 877,§ 6, eff. 5/13/2022.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 191,§ 6, eff. 5/4/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 372,§ 1, eff. 6/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 267,§ 2, eff. 5/7/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 17,§ 7, eff. 4/17/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 603,§ 4, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 125,§ 4, eff. 5/6/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 518,§ 5, eff. 4/15/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 228,§ 5, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 619,§ 3, eff. 6/4/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 43,§ 4, eff. 4/21/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 43,§ 3, eff. 4/21/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 433,§ 5, eff. 5/6/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 16, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 516,§ 2, eff. 4/19/2006.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 80, § 4, eff. 5/29/2003.
Chapter 411, § 6, eff/ 4/24/2024, amended Code Section 16-13-28(a), in part, by repealing paragraph (13.5) in its entirety, but there is no paragraph (13.5) in statute.
