# § 16-13-32.1. Transactions in drug related objects; evidence as to whether object is drug related; civil forfeiture; penalties

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to sell, rent, lease, give, exchange, otherwise distribute, or possess with intent to distribute any object or materials of any kind which such person or corporation intends to be used for the purpose of planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body marijuana or a controlled substance.
(b) Unless stated within the body of the advertisement or notice that the object or materials that are advertised or about which information is disseminated are not available for distribution of any sort in this state, it shall be unlawful for any person or corporation to sell, rent, lease, give, exchange, distribute, or possess with intent to distribute any advertisement of any kind or notice of any kind which gives information, directly or indirectly, on where, how, from whom, or by what means any object or materials may be obtained or made, which object or materials such person or corporation intends to be used for the purpose of planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, concealing, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing into the human body marijuana or a controlled substance.
(c) In determining whether any object or materials are intended for any of the purposes listed in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, a court or other authority shall consider all logically relevant factors. In a trial under this Code section, any evidence admissible on this question under the rules of evidence shall be admitted. Subject to the rules of evidence, when they are the object of an offer of proof in a court proceeding, the following factors are among those that should be considered by a court or other authority on this question:
  (1) Statements by an owner or anyone in control of the object or materials;
  (2) Instructions provided with the object or materials;
  (3) Descriptive materials accompanying the object or materials;
  (4) National and local advertising or promotional materials concerning the object or materials;
  (5) The appearance of, and any writing or other representations appearing on, the object or materials;
  (6) The manner in which the object or materials are displayed for sale or other distribution;
  (7) Expert testimony concerning the object or materials; and
  (8) Any written or pictorial materials which are present in the place where the object is located.
(d) For a first offense, any person or corporation which violates any provision of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. For a second offense, the defendant shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature. For a third or subsequent offense, the defendant shall be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be imprisoned for not less than one year nor more than five years and shall be fined not more than $5,000.00.
(e) All objects and materials which are distributed or possessed in violation of this Code section and any proceeds are declared to be contraband and no person shall have a property right in them and shall be forfeited according to the procedure set forth in Chapter 16 of Title 9. As used in this subsection, the term "proceeds" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 9-16-2.
(f) This Code section shall not apply to hypodermic needles or syringes.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 845,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 2-20, eff. 7/1/2015.
