# § 1-4-15-1. Designation of "Ronald Reagan Day."

(a) The General Assembly recognizes that:
  (1) President Ronald Wilson Reagan, a man of humble background, worked throughout his life serving freedom and advancing the public good, having been employed as an entertainer, Union leader, corporate spokesman, Governor of California, and President of the United States;
  (2) Ronald Reagan served with honor and distinction for two terms as the fortieth President of the United States of America, and in his reelection he earned the confidence of three-fifths of the electorate and was victorious in 49 of the 50 states in the general election, a record unsurpassed in the history of American presidential elections;
  (3) During Mr. Reagan's presidency he worked in a bipartisan manner to enact his bold agenda of restoring accountability and common sense to government which led to an unprecedented economic expansion and opportunity for millions of Americans;
  (4) Mr. Reagan's commitment to an active social policy agenda for the nation's children helped lower crime rates and drug use in our neighborhoods;
  (5) President Reagan's commitment to our armed forces contributed to the restoration of pride in America, her values and those cherished by the free world, and prepared America's armed forces to meet twenty-first century challenges;
  (6) President Reagan's vision of "peace through strength" led to the end of the Cold War and the ultimate demise of the Soviet Union, guaranteeing basic human rights for millions of people; and
  (7) February 6, 2005, will be the ninety-fourth anniversary of Ronald Reagan's birth, and the first since his passing.
(b) February 6 of each year is designated "Ronald Reagan Day" in Georgia.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 1, eff. 5/11/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 465,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
