# § 15-3-5. Oath of Judges; compensation

(a) Before entering on the discharge of their duties, the Judges shall take the oath prescribed for judges of the superior courts, along with all other oaths required for civil officers.
(b)
  (1) The annual salary of each Judge of the Court of Appeals shall be as specified in Code Section 45-7-4. Such salary shall be paid in equal monthly installments.
  (2) The Judges shall receive expenses and allowances as provided in Code Section 45-7-20. If a Judge resides 50 miles or more from the judicial building in Atlanta, such Judge shall also receive a mileage allowance for the use of a personal motor vehicle when devoted to official business as provided for in Code Section 50-19-7, for not more than one round trip per calendar week to and from the Judge's residence and the judicial building in Atlanta by the most practical route, during each regular and extraordinary session of court. In the event a Judge travels by public carrier for any part of a round trip as provided above, such Judge shall receive a travel allowance of actual transportation costs for each such part in lieu of the mileage allowance. Transportation costs incurred by a Judge for air travel to and from the Judge's residence to the judicial building in Atlanta shall be reimbursed only to the extent that such costs do not exceed the cost of travel by personal motor vehicle. All allowances provided for in this paragraph shall be paid upon the submission of proper vouchers.
  (3) If a Judge resides 50 miles or more from the judicial building in Atlanta, such Judge shall also receive the same daily expense allowance as members of the General Assembly receive, as set forth in Code Section 28-1-8, for not more than 35 days during each term of court. Such days shall be utilized only when official court business is being conducted. All allowances provided for in this paragraph shall be paid upon the submission of proper vouchers.
(c) The salary provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section shall be the total compensation to be paid by the state to the officials named in subsection (b) of this Code section and shall be in lieu of any and all other amounts to be paid from state funds.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 38,§ 1-2, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 138,§ 1-2B, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 237,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2007.
