# § 37-5-6. County or health district plan for community services; review and approval of plan by the department

(a) Each county board of health shall, on or before July 1, 1973, submit to the department a plan for providing comprehensive community services to developmentally disabled individuals residing in the county, provided that any group of counties comprising a health district may join and submit one plan covering the entire health district. The plan shall state:
  (1) An estimate of the number of developmentally disabled individuals residing in the county who require services afforded by this chapter;
  (2) A description of the specific services required by developmentally disabled individuals residing in the county;
  (3) A description of physical facilities available for use in providing the required community services;
  (4) A description of physical facilities, if any, which must be constructed to provide the necessary services;
  (5) A proposed staff roster of professional and nonprofessional employees who must be hired to provide necessary services; and
  (6) A detailed budget showing all costs of providing the necessary services for fiscal years 1977, 1978, and 1979 and a summary budget for each fiscal year from 1980 through 1985 inclusive.
(b) The department shall provide assistance to county boards of health in preparing the plan required by subsection (a) of this Code section.
(c) The department shall review the plan submitted by each county or district as required by subsection (a) of this Code section and shall suggest such changes as may be necessary to achieve the objectives of this chapter.
(d) On or before July 1, 1975, the department shall publish in print or electronically an approved plan for each county or health district which shall address each point set out in subsection (a) of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-5, eff. 7/1/2009.
