# § 20-14-43. Chief Turnaround Officer; qualifications; duties

(a) There is created the position of Chief Turnaround Officer. The Governor, after consulting with the State School Superintendent and the Education Turnaround Advisory Council and, in his or her discretion, conducting a national search, shall appoint the Chief Turnaround Officer who shall serve at the pleasure of the Governor. The Chief Turnaround Officer shall be an employee of the Department of Education in the school improvement division and shall report to the State School Superintendent.
(b) The Chief Turnaround Officer shall have the following qualifications:
  (1) Extensive personal experience in turning around low-performing schools, including expertise in turnaround strategies, curriculum, instruction, and teacher and principal effectiveness;
  (2) Has held the position of at least principal or a higher administrative position in a public school system for a minimum of five years with demonstrated skills in school management, budget, finance, federal and state programs, funding sources, and talent management; and
  (3) Such additional education, experience, and other qualifications as determined by the Governor, in consultation with the State Board of Education and the State School Superintendent.
(c) The duties of the Chief Turnaround Officer shall include, but are not limited to:
  (1) Managing and overseeing a system of supports and assistance for the lowest-performing schools in this state identified as in the greatest need of assistance;
  (2) Identifying resources, including the establishment of a resource list of evidence based strategies and integrated student services, and consulting with regional educational service agencies to determine specific expertise and resources available at each such regional educational service agency directly relating to school turnaround;
  (3) Annually establishing a list of third-party specialists, including auditors and consultants, to assist schools and local school systems in conducting comprehensive on-site evaluations of schools to determine the root causes of low performance and lack of progress, to assist schools and local school systems in the implementation of intensive school improvement plans, or to provide any of the necessary support services as specified in the engagement letter or contract. Such list of third-party specialists shall be established through a request for proposals process and approved by the State Board of Education. Such request for proposals shall be designed with input from the Education Turnaround Advisory Council;
  (4) Coordinating with the Office of Student Achievement to identify all state resources and supports available to the lowest-performing schools in the greatest need of assistance;
  (5) Identifying turnaround coaches pursuant to Code Section 20-14-44 to serve as the assigned state site liaison in the school improvement process;
  (6) Building school level leadership capabilities, in cooperation with agencies and organizations that have experience and capacity, and providing leadership development opportunities for principals and other school level leaders in turnaround eligible schools selected by the Chief Turnaround Officer; and
  (7) Identifying best practices for school turnaround, including identifying those practices that are not successful in improving student outcomes, and sharing such information with local school systems and schools in this state.
(d) The Department of Education shall establish the state plan pursuant to the federal Every Student Succeeds Act in a manner that pursues and allows maximum flexibility to implement the provisions of this part.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 389,§ 2-4, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 27,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
