# § 20-14-49. Failure to progress after implementation of intensive school improvement plan; interventions

(a) If after three school years of implementing the intensive school improvement plan developed pursuant to Code Section 20-14-46, the school is not improving, as determined by the Chief Turnaround Officer based on the terms of the amended contract, amended charter, or the intervention contract and on other applicable factors, the Chief Turnaround Officer shall require that one or more of the following interventions be implemented at the school, unless the school is in substantial compliance with the implementation of the intensive school improvement plan and has exhibited ongoing cooperation and collaboration:
  (1) Continued implementation of the intensive school improvement plan developed pursuant to Code Section 20-14-46;
  (2) Removal of school personnel, which may include the principal and personnel whose performance has been determined to be insufficient to produce student achievement gains;
  (3) Implementation of a state charter school or a special school, as defined in Code Section 20-2-2062;
  (4) Complete reconstitution of the school, removing all personnel, appointing a new principal, and hiring all new staff. Existing staff may reapply for employment at the newly reconstituted school but shall not be rehired if their performance regarding student achievement has been negative for the past four years;
  (5) Operation of the school by a private nonprofit third-party operator selected and contracted by the local board of education;
  (6) Mandatory parental option to relocate the student to another public school in the local school system that does not have an unacceptable rating, to be chosen by the parents of the student from a list of available options provided by the local school system. The local school system shall provide transportation for students in Title I schools in accordance with the requirements of federal law. The local school system may provide transportation for students in non-Title I schools. In any year in which the General Assembly does not appropriate funds for the provision of transportation to non-Title I students, the parent or guardian shall assume responsibility for the transportation of that student;
  (7) Complete restructuring of the school's governance arrangement and internal organization of the school;
  (8) Operation of the school by a successful school system and pursuant to funding criteria established by the State Board of Education; or
  (9) Any other interventions or requirements deemed appropriate by the Chief Turnaround Officer and the State Board of Education for the school and in accordance with the amended contract, amended charter, or intervention contract, except that operation of the school by a for profit entity shall be prohibited.
(b) Before the implementation of any interventions required by the Chief Turnaround Officer pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section for a school, the local board of education may request an opportunity for a hearing before the State Board of Education to show cause as to why an intervention or interventions imposed by the Chief Turnaround Officer for a school should not be required or that alternative interventions would be more appropriate. Such request shall be made no later than 30 days after notification by the Chief Turnaround Officer of the intended interventions. The State Board of Education shall take into consideration the substantial compliance of the school in the implementation of the intensive school improvement plan and the ongoing cooperation and collaboration exhibited by the school. The State Board of Education shall make a determination on any such request no later than 60 days after receipt of such request. The determination of the State Board of Education, with input from the State School Superintendent, shall be the final decision.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 389,§ 2-9, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 27,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
