# § 20-14-49.1. Education Turnaround Advisory Council created; composition; administration; role

(a) There is created the Education Turnaround Advisory Council which shall report to the State School Superintendent. The Education Turnaround Advisory Council shall be composed of:
  (1) The executive director of the Georgia School Boards Association or his or her designee;
  (2) The executive director of the Georgia School Superintendents Association or his or her designee;
  (3) The executive director of the Professional Association of Georgia Educators or his or her designee;
  (4) The executive director of the Georgia Association of Educators or his or her designee;
  (5) The executive director of the Georgia Association of Educational Leaders or his or her designee;
  (6) The president of the Georgia Parent Teacher Association;
  (7) The executive director of Educators First or his or her designee; and
  (8) Education leaders representing local school superintendents, local boards of education, teachers, business leaders, or other appropriate individuals with interest in public education appointed as follows:
    (A) Two education leaders appointed by the Lieutenant Governor; and
    (B) Two education leaders appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.
(b) The State School Superintendent shall cause the council to be convened no later than 30 days after the last appointment is made to the council. The council shall select a chairperson from among its membership.
(c) The Education Turnaround Advisory Council shall be authorized to:
  (1) Submit to the Governor's office names of potential candidates for the position of Chief Turnaround Officer and for turnaround coaches;
  (2) Recommend school turnaround resources and potential turnaround experts to be added to resource lists;
  (3) Provide advisement on the development of state-wide assessment tools;
  (4) Provide advisement to the State School Superintendent and Chief Turnaround Officer, as necessary;
  (5) Provide recommendations and input on the request for proposals process conducted pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (c) of Code Section 20-14-43 to establish a list of approved third-party specialists that may be retained to assist in the evaluation of schools; and
  (6) Perform such other duties as assigned by the State School Superintendent.
(d) The Education Turnaround Advisory Council shall have no authority and shall only be advisory in nature.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 389,§ 2-10, eff. 7/1/2021.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 27,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
