# § 20-14-3. Membership; officers; meetings

(a) The alliance shall consist of the Governor, the State School Superintendent, the chairperson of the State Board of Education, the chancellor of the University System of Georgia, the chairperson of the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia, the commissioner of the Technical College System of Georgia, the chairperson of the State Board of the Technical College System of Georgia, the executive secretary of the Professional Standards Commission, the chairperson of the Professional Standards Commission, and the director of the Department of Early Care and Learning.
(b) The Governor shall be the chairperson of the alliance. A vice chairperson and a secretary shall be selected by the members of the alliance as prescribed in the alliance's bylaws.
(c) Meetings of the alliance shall be held quarterly, or more frequently, on the call of the chairperson. Meetings of the alliance shall be held with no less than five days' public notice for regular meetings and with such notice as the bylaws may prescribe for special meetings. Each member shall be given written notice of all meetings. All meetings of the alliance shall be subject to the provisions of Chapter 14 of Title 50. Minutes or transcripts shall be kept of all meetings of the alliance and shall include a record of the votes of each member, specifying the yea or nay vote or absence of each member, on all questions and matters coming before the alliance. No member may abstain from a vote other than for reasons constituting disqualification to the satisfaction of a majority of a quorum of the alliance on a recorded vote. No member of the alliance shall be represented by a delegate or agent.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 8,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 20, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 225,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 20, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 565, § 16, eff. 10/1/2004.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 20, eff. 2/12/2001.
