# § 20-14-49.13. Reporting of percentage of students with each state funded characteristic included in Code Section 20-2-161; online sortable database; underlying fiscal data for financial efficiency ratings; inter-agency cooperation

(a) The office shall report the percentage of students with each state funded characteristic included in Code Section 20-2-161 at the local school system and school levels.
(b) The office shall create and publish an online sortable data base for each local school system and school on per student expenditures used to determine the financial efficiency rating calculated by the office pursuant to Code Section 20-14-33 and as delineated in Section 1111(h)(1)(C)(x) of the federal Elementary and Secondary Education Act, as amended by the federal Every Student Succeeds Act.
(c) The office shall report the relative financial performance of local school systems and schools.
(d) The Department of Education shall publish annually on its website all underlying fiscal data that inform the financial efficiency rating calculated by the office pursuant to Code Section 20-14-33 and an explanation of the fiscal data that inform the financial efficiency rating on a disaggregated basis.
(e) All state and local government entities, including the Department of Education, Department of Audits and Accounts, Office of Planning and Budget, the office, and local school systems shall cooperate with and assist each other in complying with this part.

## History

Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 29,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
