# § 20-14-27. Required reports; publication format

(a) The office shall submit the following reports to the alliance:
  (1) An annual report regarding pre-kindergarten education shall be submitted no later than December 1 of each year, commencing December 1, 2002. The pre-kindergarten report shall be an evaluation of the progress made on performance indicators identified and defined by the office and approved by the alliance for all pre-kindergarten and child care programs under the administrative control of the Department of Early Care and Learning. The pre-kindergarten report shall include information concerning results of the state's investment in each pre-kindergarten program;
  (2) An annual report regarding elementary and secondary education shall be submitted no later than December 1 of each year, commencing December 1, 2001. The elementary and secondary education report shall be an evaluation of the progress made on performance indicators identified and defined by the office and approved by the alliance for all elementary and secondary education programs administered by the Department of Education. The elementary and secondary education report shall include information concerning results of the state's investment in each public school and each public school system;
  (3) An annual report regarding postsecondary education shall be submitted no later than December 1 of each year, commencing December 1, 2002. The postsecondary education report shall be an evaluation of the progress made on performance indicators identified and defined by the office and approved by the alliance for all universities, colleges, institutes, and schools in the University System of Georgia and under the governance of the Technical College System of Georgia. The postsecondary education report shall include information concerning results of the state's investment in each university, college, institute, and school; and
  (4) An annual report regarding the Georgia education work force shall be submitted no later than December 1 of each year, commencing December 1, 2002. The Georgia education work force report shall be an evaluation of the progress made on performance indicators identified and defined by the office and approved by the alliance for the education work force status under the administrative control of the Professional Standards Commission. The Georgia education work force report shall contain information on the results of the state's investments in teacher preparation, educators' professional development, education leadership development, in-field teaching, geographic teacher shortages, alternative routes to teacher certification, and other general information and indicators on the quality of the education work force.
(b) Each report provided for in this Code section shall be published in a format that can be easily understood by parents and other members of the community who are not professional educators. Such reports shall be distributed to the Governor, Lieutenant Governor, the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the chairpersons of the Higher Education committees of the Senate and House of Representatives, the House Education Committee, and the Senate Education and Youth Committee, members of the state education governing boards or commissions, and members of the alliance. The office shall not be required to distribute copies of such reports to the members of the General Assembly but shall notify such members of the availability of the reports in the manner which it deems to be most effective and efficient. In addition, such reports shall be posted on the website of the office.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 8,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 74,§ 10, eff. 4/30/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 472,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 333,§ 19, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 565, § 16, eff. 10/1/2004.
