# § 20-14-26. Duties

(a) The office shall have the following duties:
  (1) To create a single state-wide accountability system, establish indicators of performance, rate schools and school systems, develop annual report cards for elementary, middle, and secondary schools, and formulate a system of school awards and interventions. The State Board of Education shall approve a single accountability system for local schools and school systems that incorporates federal law, rules, and regulations relating to accountability;
  (2) To audit and inspect or cause to be audited or inspected for the purpose of verification, research, analysis, reporting, or for other purposes related to the performance of its powers and duties as provided in this article and for the purposes of auditing pre-kindergarten, elementary, middle grades, and secondary education, postsecondary education, and education work force programs and schools, local school systems, institutes, colleges, universities, regional educational service agencies, and other public education programs and entities as defined by the alliance;
  (3) To serve as staff to the alliance;
  (4) To exercise the powers and discharge duties of the alliance, as set forth in Code Section 20-14-8, under the supervision and oversight of the alliance; and
  (5) As directed by the Governor, to work in consultation with the State Workforce Development Board to audit and report on the effectiveness of employment, wage attainment, and retention of students in programs that align with the High-demand Career List provided for in Code Section 34-14-3.
(b) The member agencies of the alliance and other departments, boards, and offices of this state shall cooperate fully with the office and shall provide the office with all information that the alliance deems necessary for the office to discharge its accountability duties under this article regarding the education programs and units governed by such member agencies or other departments, boards, or offices.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 554,§ 2-4, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 8,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 155,§ 18, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 449, § 20, eff. 5/4/2004.
