# § 20-14-34. School and system report cards; required information; dissemination of reports

(a) Each school year, the office shall prepare and distribute to each school system in the State of Georgia a report card for each school in the school system and for the school system. The report cards shall include performance data on quality of learning, financial efficiency, and school climate as calculated pursuant to Code Section 20-14-33 and based on the most current data available disaggregated by student groups. This report card on schools shall be the official state education performance report and supersedes all other reports that may be issued by departments of the state government for matters of funding, awards, and interventions.
(b) The report cards shall include the following information, where applicable:
  (1) The individual school and school system ratings in a numerical format as provided for in subsection (d) of Code Section 20-14-33;
  (2) A financial efficiency rating for each school and school system;
  (3) A school climate rating for each school and school system;
  (4) An explanation of the criteria that informs the school and school system rating; and
  (5) An explanation of the criteria that informs the financial efficiency and school climate ratings.
(c) Each school year, the office shall prepare and distribute a state-wide report card, aggregated by school systems and disaggregated by student groups, reporting on the performance results of each school and each school system in the state and a rating for each school and each school system as provided for in subsection (d) of Code Section 20-14-33 and subsection (a) of this Code section.
(d) The State Board of Education shall adopt rules requiring dissemination of appropriate portions of school and school system report cards annually to the parent, guardian, conservator, or other person having lawful control of each student at the school. On written request, the local school system shall provide a copy of a school or school system report card to any other party. These report cards shall be posted on the Office of Student Achievement website, the Department of Education website, and the existing website of such local school system.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 612,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 155,§ 20, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 449, § 21, eff. 5/4/2004.
