# § 15-18-19. State paid personnel; salary schedules

(a) All state paid personnel employed by the district attorneys pursuant to this article shall be employees of the judicial branch of state government in accordance with Article VI, Section VIII of the Constitution of Georgia and shall be in the unclassified service as defined by Code Section 45-20-2.
(b) Personnel employed by the district attorneys pursuant to this article shall have such authority, duties, powers, and responsibilities as are authorized by law or as assigned by the district attorney and shall serve at the pleasure of the district attorney.
(c) Subject to the provisions of this chapter, the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia shall, with the advice and consent of a majority of the district attorneys, adopt and amend uniform policies, rules, and regulations which shall apply to all state paid personnel employed by the district attorneys. Such policies, rules, and regulations may include provisions for the appointment, classification, promotion, transfer, demotion, leave, travel, records, reports, and training of personnel. Such policies, rules, and regulations shall be consistent with the duties, responsibilities, and powers of the district attorneys under the Constitution and laws of this state and the rules of the trial and appellate courts. Not less than 30 days prior to taking final action on any proposed policy, rule, or regulation adopted pursuant to this Code section, or any amendment thereto, the council shall transmit a copy of said policy, rule, regulation, or amendment to all district attorneys and the presiding officers of the House Committee on Judiciary and the Senate Judiciary Committee.
(d) District attorneys and state paid personnel employed by the district attorney shall be entitled to annual, sick, and other leave authorized by the policies, rules, or regulations adopted by the council pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section. Subject to the provisions of Code Section 47-2-91, district attorneys who are members of either the District Attorneys' Retirement System or the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia shall also be entitled to receive creditable service for any forfeited annual or sick leave.
(e)
  (1) The council shall establish salary schedules for each such state paid position authorized by this article or any other provision of law. Said salary schedules shall be similar to the general and special schedules applicable to state employees pursuant to the rules of the State Personnel Board and shall provide for a minimum entry step and not less than ten additional steps, not to exceed the maximum allowable salary. In establishing the salary schedule, all amounts will be rounded off to the nearest whole dollar. The council may, from time to time, revise the salary schedule to include across-the-board increases which the General Assembly may from time to time authorize in the General Appropriations Act.
  (2) The district attorney shall fix the compensation of each state paid employee appointed pursuant to this article in accordance with the class to which such person is appointed and the appropriate step of the salary schedule.
  (3) All salary advancements shall be based on quality of work, training, and performance. The salary of state paid personnel appointed pursuant to this article may be advanced one step at the first of the calendar month following the annual anniversary of such person's appointment. No employee's salary shall be advanced beyond the maximum established in the applicable pay schedule.
  (4) Any reduction in salary shall be made in accordance with the salary schedule for such position and the policies, rules, or regulations adopted by the council.
  (5) The compensation of state paid personnel appointed pursuant to this article shall be paid in equal installments by the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia as provided by this subsection from funds appropriated for such purpose. The council may authorize employees compensated pursuant to this Code section to participate in voluntary salary deductions as provided by Article 3 of Chapter 7 of Title 45.
  (6) The governing authority of the county or counties comprising a judicial circuit may supplement the salary or fringe benefits of any state paid position appointed pursuant to this article.
  (7) The governing authority of any municipality within the judicial circuit may, with the approval of the district attorney, supplement the salary or fringe benefits of any state paid position appointed pursuant to this article.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 15, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-17, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 564,§ 10, eff. 7/1/2008.
