# § 15-18-44. Powers and duties; employees' bonds; audits

(a) The Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia:
  (1) Shall be a legal entity;
  (2) Shall have perpetual existence;
  (3) May contract;
  (4) May own property;
  (5) May accept funds, grants, and gifts from any public or private source, which shall be used to defray the expenses incident to implementing its purposes;
  (6) May adopt and use an official seal;
  (7) May establish a principal office;
  (8) May hire such administrative and clerical personnel as may be necessary and appropriate to fulfill its purposes; and
  (9) Shall have such other powers, privileges, and duties as may be reasonable and necessary for the proper fulfillment of its purposes.
(b) The council shall require a sufficient bond, signed by some surety or guaranty company authorized to do business in this state, of any administrative or clerical personnel employed by the council and empowered by the council to handle its funds. The premiums due on all such bonds may be paid by the council from funds available to it.
(c) The council shall establish such auditing procedures as may be required in connection with the handling of public funds. The state auditor is authorized and directed to make an annual audit of the transactions of the council and to make a complete report of the same to the General Assembly. The state auditor shall not be required to distribute copies of the report to the members of the General Assembly but shall notify the members of the availability of the report in the manner which he or she deems to be most effective and efficient. The report shall disclose all moneys received by the council and all expenditures made by the council, including administrative expense. The state auditor shall also make an audit of the affairs of the council at any time when requested to do so by a majority of the council or by the Governor.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 564,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 471,§ 15, eff. 5/12/2008.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 333,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2005.
