# § 15-18-14.2. Victim assistance coordinator

(a) Subject to such funds as may be appropriated by the General Assembly or which are otherwise available to the State of Georgia for such purpose, the district attorney is authorized to employ a victim assistance coordinator and such other victim assistance personnel as may be necessary to assist the district attorney in carrying out the duties imposed by Chapters 15, 17, and 18 of Title 17 relating to the rights of victims of crime or other laws of this state relating to the rights of victims of crimes. Any such personnel shall be compensated by the state in the same manner as other state paid personnel appointed pursuant to this article from such funds as may be appropriated for such purpose or as are otherwise available for such purpose. Such personnel shall also be authorized to receive the same fringe benefits as other state paid personnel.
(b) Subject to the provisions of Code Section 15-18-19, the district attorney shall fix the compensation of each person appointed pursuant to this Code section; provided, however, that the maximum salary for any such position shall not exceed 70 percent of the annual salary of the district attorney from state funds.
(c) Each person employed as a victim assistance coordinator or victims' advocate shall complete an initial training program prescribed by the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia within 12 months of such employment and such in-service training as the council shall by rule prescribe.
(d) Not later than June 1 of each year, the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia shall furnish to each district attorney a budget for the judicial circuit based on the amount appropriated by the General Assembly or otherwise available for personnel and operations of victim assistance programs authorized by this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 564,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 519, § 2, eff. 7/1/2004.
