# § 15-18-45. Authorization to conduct or approve training programs; requirements for designated special drug prosecutor

(a) The council shall be authorized to conduct or approve for credit or reimbursement, or both, basic and continuing legal education courses or other appropriate training programs for the district attorneys, solicitors-general, and other prosecuting attorneys of this state and the members of the staffs of such officials. The council, in accordance with such rules as it shall adopt, shall be authorized to provide reimbursement, in whole or in part, for the actual expenses incurred by any district attorney, solicitor-general, or other prosecuting attorney of this state or any member of the staffs of such officials in attending any such approved course or training program from such funds as may be appropriated or otherwise made available to the council. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, such officials and members of their staffs shall be authorized to receive reimbursement for actual expenses incurred in attending approved courses or training programs, provided that no person shall be entitled to claim reimbursement under both this Code section and Code Section 15-18-12. The council shall adopt such rules governing the approval of courses and training programs for credit or reimbursement as may be necessary to administer this Code section properly.
(b) Each person designated as a special drug prosecutor pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 15-18-14 shall complete an initial training program prescribed by the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia within 12 months of such employment and such in-service training as the council shall by rule prescribe.

## History

Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 15, eff. 2/12/2001.
