# § 15-18-60. Establishment of solicitor-general; term; vacancies; service by district attorney; multicounty service

(a)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in this article, there shall be a solicitor-general of each state court who shall be elected for a four-year term and commissioned by the Governor as provided by law. This chapter shall not apply to a city court where the judges or solicitor is appointed by the mayor of a city.
  (2) Except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection or subsection (c) of this Code section, any person holding the office of solicitor of a state court on July 1, 1996, shall become the solicitor-general of such court by operation of law and shall serve for the remainder of the term for which he or she was elected or appointed.
  (3) Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, any person holding the office of solicitor of a state court on July 1, 1996, may elect to continue to be styled as the solicitor of such court for so long as such person continues to hold such office. Such election shall be made in writing within 30 days following July 1, 1996, by filing a notice of such election with the clerk of the state court and the superintendent of elections for such county or counties. Such election shall remain in effect either until such person withdraws such election in writing subsequently, which withdrawal shall be irrevocable, or until such person ceases to serve as solicitor, whichever occurs first, at which time paragraph (2) of this subsection shall become effective. It shall be the duty of the superintendent of elections to furnish a copy of the notice of such election to the Secretary of State within 30 days of receiving the same.
(b) In the event of a vacancy in the office of solicitor-general of the state court for any reason except the expiration of the term of office, the Governor shall appoint a qualified person who shall serve as provided in Article VI, Section VII, Paragraphs III and IV of the Constitution.
(c)
  (1) The General Assembly may by local law provide that the district attorney of the judicial circuit shall represent the state in all criminal prosecutions brought in a state court in lieu of creating a separate solicitor-general for the state court.
  (2) Except as otherwise specifically provided in Article 1 of this chapter, such district attorney shall have the same duties and authority under this article as any solicitor-general.
  (3) The county governing authority may supplement the compensation and fringe benefits of the district attorney and any personnel of the district attorney who support the prosecution of criminal cases in the state court of such county.
  (4) Notwithstanding any other provision of law, if the General Assembly has provided by local law for an assistant district attorney to be designated or appointed as solicitor of a state court, such power, duty, and authority to prosecute in the state court is vested in the district attorney of the judicial circuit in which such county is located, as provided in this subsection. The provisions of this article shall not affect the compensation of an assistant district attorney previously designated as a solicitor of a state court so long as such assistant is assigned to prosecute criminal cases in the state court.
(d) The General Assembly may by local law authorize a solicitor-general of state court to represent the state in more than one county within a judicial circuit. The solicitor-general of a multicounty state court shall be selected as provided by local law.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 462, § 15, eff. 4/18/2002.
