# § 15-18-41. Composition of council; election and term of office; filling of vacancies; removal

(a) The council shall be composed of nine members, six of whom shall be district attorneys and three of whom shall be solicitors or solicitors-general of courts of record.
(b) The initial six district attorney members of the council shall be selected with two members being appointed for a term of four years, two members being appointed for a term of three years, and two members being appointed for a term of two years. The initial three solicitor or solicitor-general members shall be selected with one member being appointed for a term of three years and one member being appointed for a term of two years.
(c) Following the terms of the initial members who take office on July 1, 1975, the term of office of each member of the council shall be for a period of four years. Immediately prior to the expiration of a member's term of office as a member, the council shall elect a new member to succeed the member whose term is expiring. Members of the council shall take office on the first day of July following their election as a member. No prosecutor member of the council shall be eligible to succeed himself for a consecutive term as a member.
(d) In the event a vacancy occurs in the prosecutor membership of the council as a result of death, resignation, removal, or failure of reelection as a prosecutor, the remaining members of the council shall elect a qualified person to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term of the member whose seat is vacant. The person elected to fill such vacancy shall take office immediately upon his election.
(e) The council may, by two-thirds' vote of the members, remove any member of the council for failure to attend meetings, misconduct, incompetency, or neglect of duty.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 564,§ 13, eff. 7/1/2008.
