# § 15-18-10.1. Annual accountability supplement; exception

(a) Whenever a circuit has implemented a drug court division, mental health court division, or veterans court division, then on and after January 1, 2016, the state shall pay the district attorney in such circuit an annual accountability court supplement of $6,000.00. Such supplement shall be paid from state funds by the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia in equal monthly installments as regular compensation.
(b) Notwithstanding Code Sections 15-18-14 and 15-18-14.2, the accountability court salary supplement paid pursuant to this Code section shall not be included in any calculation of compensation paid to assistant district attorneys or victim assistance coordinators that is measured as a percentage of a district attorney's salary.
(c) When a local law provides for a salary to be paid based on a percentage of, total compensation for, or similar mathematical relationship to a district attorney's salary, the accountability court salary supplement paid pursuant to this Code section shall not be included in the calculation of compensation to be paid by a county, municipality, or consolidated government.
(d) Notwithstanding subsection (b) of Code Section 15-18-10 and Code Section 15-18-19, on or after January 1, 2016, no county or counties comprising the circuit shall increase an aggregate county salary supplement paid to the district attorney or a state-paid position appointed pursuant to this article, if such supplement is $50,000.00 or more.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 138,§ 1-6, eff. only if funds are appropriated for purposes of Part I of this Act in an appropriations Act enacted at the 2015 regular session of the General Assembly.
