# § 15-18-15. Chief assistant district attorney; powers and duties in district attorney's absence

(a) The district attorney may designate in writing an assistant district attorney as the chief assistant district attorney. In addition to such assistant district attorney's other duties, the chief assistant district attorney shall have such administrative and supervisory duties as may be assigned by the district attorney.
(b)
  (1) If the district attorney is unable to perform the duties of the office because of physical or mental disability, the chief assistant district attorney shall have the same power, duties, and responsibilities as the district attorney. Said authority shall terminate upon the incumbent district attorney resuming the duties of said office. Any question of fact concerning the disability of a district attorney shall be presented by either the chief assistant district attorney or the district attorney and shall be determined by the superior court sitting without a jury in a manner and under a procedure which is analogous to that provided by rule of the Supreme Court adopted pursuant to Article V, Section IV, Paragraph II of the Constitution of Georgia for elected constitutional executive officers.
  (2) If the district attorney will be temporarily absent from the judicial circuit such that he or she is not available to perform the duties of his or her office, the district attorney may authorize, in writing, the chief assistant district attorney to exercise any of the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the district attorney during such absence, including but not limited to such powers and duties as the district attorney may have pursuant to this title, Code Section 16-11-64, and Code Section 24-5-507 and the laws of this state relating to the validation of bonds.
  (3) If the district attorney shall be absent for a period of more than 30 days as a result of ordered military duty, as defined in Code Section 38-2-279, or disability as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the chief assistant district attorney shall be designated acting district attorney. If no chief assistant has been designated pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section, the district attorney shall designate a chief assistant district attorney pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section prior to entering ordered military service. Should the district attorney fail to designate a chief assistant district attorney prior to entering ordered military duty, the assistant district attorney senior in time of service shall be designated the acting district attorney. The designation of an acting district attorney shall terminate upon the district attorney's release from ordered military duty or the district attorney resuming the duties of said office as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (4) An acting district attorney, upon assuming the office as provided in paragraph (1) or (3) of this subsection, shall be compensated at the same rate as is authorized by general or local law for the district attorney. The acting district attorney shall retain such other benefits and emoluments as an assistant district attorney, including, but not limited to, membership in the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia and coverage under the State Employees Health Benefit Plan.
  (5) The acting district attorney shall be authorized to appoint an additional assistant district attorney who shall be compensated in the same manner and from the same source or sources as the acting district attorney was compensated prior to being designated acting district attorney. Said appointment shall be temporary and shall terminate upon the district attorney resuming the duties of his or her office.
(c) In addition to any other compensation which the chief assistant district attorney may receive from state or county funds, the district attorney may authorize the chief assistant district attorney to be paid an amount based on the salary schedule developed by the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia pursuant to Code Section 15-18-19.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 24, eff. 1/1/2013.
