# § 15-18-66. Duties; authority

(a) The duties of the solicitors-general within their respective counties are:
  (1) To attend each session of the state court when criminal cases are to be heard unless excused by the judge thereof and to remain until the business of the state is disposed of;
  (2) To administer the oaths required by law to the bailiffs or other officers of the court and otherwise to aid the presiding judge in organizing the court as may be necessary;
  (3) To file accusations on such criminal cases deemed prosecutable and, subject to paragraph (10) of subsection (b) of this Code section, to prosecute all accused offenses;
  (4) To ensure disposition information is submitted in accordance with subsection (g) of Code Section 35-3-36 when a final disposition decision is made by a solicitor-general;
  (5) To attend before the appellate courts when any criminal case in which the solicitor-general represents the state is heard, to argue the same, and to perform any other duty therein which the interest of the state may require; and
  (6) To perform such other duties as are or may be required by law or which necessarily appertain to their office.
(b) The authority of the solicitors-general shall include but is not limited to the following:
  (1) To review every individual case for which probable cause for prosecution exists, and make a prosecutorial decision available under the law based on the facts and circumstances of each individual case under oath of duty as provided in Code Section 15-18-2, and, if necessary, investigate all criminal cases which may be prosecuted in state court;
  (2) When authorized by law, to represent the interests of the state in all courts of inquiry within the county in any matter wherein misdemeanor offenses are heard;
  (3) When authorized by the local governing authority, to be the prosecuting attorney of any municipal court, recorder's court, or probate court;
  (4) To prosecute civil actions to enforce any civil penalty set forth in Code Section 40-6-163 and when authorized by law to prosecute or defend any civil action in the state court in the prosecution or defense of which the state is interested, unless otherwise specially provided for;
  (5) To reduce to judgment any fine, forfeiture, or restitution imposed by the state court as part of a sentence in a criminal case or forfeiture of a recognizance which is not paid in accordance with the order of the court. The solicitor-general may institute such civil or criminal action in the courts of this state or of the United States or any of the several states, to enforce said judgment against the property of the defendant;
  (6) To prosecute on behalf of the state any criminal action which is removed from the state court to a United States district court pursuant to Chapter 89 of Title 28 of the United States Code. The expenses incurred by the solicitor-general as actual costs in the prosecution of any such case shall be paid by the county;
  (7) To represent the state or any officer or agent of the county in a superior court in any habeas corpus action arising out of any criminal proceeding in the state court, except in those cases in which the commissioner of public safety is named as a party;
  (8) At the request of any district attorney or solicitor-general, to prosecute or assist in the prosecution of any criminal or civil action and when acting in such capacity a solicitor-general shall have the same authority and power as the requesting prosecutor;
  (9) To request and utilize the assistance of any solicitor-general, assistant solicitor-general, district attorney, assistant district attorney, or other attorney employed by an agency of this state or its political subdivisions or authorities in the prosecution of any criminal or civil action;
  (10) To enter a nolle prosequi on any accusation, citation, or summons filed and pending or on any indictment pending in the state court as provided by law. No accusation, citation, or summons shall be considered filed unless such filing has been done with the consent, direction, or approval of the solicitor-general. Further, no notice of arraignment shall be given prior to such filing without the solicitor-general's consent, direction, or approval. Prior to the filing of an accusation, citation, or summons, the solicitor-general shall have the same authority and discretion as district attorneys over criminal cases within their jurisdiction;
  (11) To request the magistrate to schedule within a reasonable time a preliminary probable cause hearing in any pending misdemeanor case prior to the filing of an accusation and to represent the interests of the state at such hearing; and
  (12) To exercise such authority as may be permitted by law or which necessarily appertains to their office.
(c) The provisions of this Code section shall not be deemed to restrict, limit, or diminish any authority or power granted to a solicitor-general by local Act.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 349,§ 3, eff. 5/5/2023.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 717,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 15, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 534,§ 2, eff. 4/11/2012.
