# § 15-18-14.1. Investigators; qualifications; powers; compensation

(a) Subject to the provisions of this Code section, the district attorney in each judicial circuit is authorized to appoint one investigator to assist the district attorney in the performance of his or her official duties in the preparation of cases for indictment or trial. Subject to funds being appropriated by the General Assembly or otherwise available for such purpose, the district attorney in each judicial circuit may appoint such additional district attorney investigators as may be authorized by the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia. In authorizing additional district attorney investigators, the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia shall consider the case load, present staff, and resources available to each district attorney, and shall make such authorizations as will contribute to the efficiency of individual district attorneys and the effectiveness of prosecuting attorneys throughout the state in their efforts against criminal activity in the state.
(b) An investigator appointed pursuant to this Code section shall be not less than 21 years of age, meet the qualifications specified by subsection (c) of Code Section 15-18-21, and shall serve at the pleasure of the district attorney.
(c) No person appointed pursuant to this Code section shall exercise any of the powers or authority which are by law vested in the office of sheriff or any other peace officer, including the power of arrest, except as may be authorized by law. An investigator appointed pursuant to this Code section shall:
  (1) Serve as a liaison between the district attorney's office and the sheriffs' and other law enforcement agencies within the judicial circuit;
  (2) Assist victims and witnesses of crimes through the complexities of the criminal justice system and ensure that victims of crime are apprised of the rights afforded them under Chapter 14 of Title 17; Chapter 17 of Title 17, the "Crime Victims' Bill of Rights"; Chapter 18 of Title 17; and Code Section 24-6-616;
  (3) Assist the attorneys within the district attorney's office in the preparation of cases for preliminary hearings, presentation to a grand jury, pretrial hearings, and trial;
  (4) Assist the sheriffs and other peace officers within the judicial circuit in the application for warrants and the preparation of case reports which are required by law or which are necessary for the prosecution of the case;
  (5) Provide such other assistance to the sheriffs and other peace officers as may be authorized by law or which may be mutually agreed on between the district attorney and the sheriff or head of the law enforcement agency or agencies involved; and
  (6) Perform such other duties as are required by the district attorney.
(d) Each investigator appointed pursuant to this Code section shall be compensated based on a salary schedule established pursuant to Code Section 15-18-19. The salary range for the investigator appointed pursuant to this Code section shall be not less than $30,828.00.
(e)
  (1) Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, a district attorney investigator shall be appointed initially to the entry grade of the general pay schedule.
  (2) Any person who is employed in a nonstate paid investigator's position within a district attorney's office may be transferred to a state paid position. Such transfer shall be to the salary step which is based on the number of years the person has served in the investigator position as if the person had been initially appointed pursuant to this Code section.
  (3) Any person who is employed as a peace officer by an agency of the executive branch of state government who is appointed as an investigator pursuant to this Code section without a break in service may be appointed to the salary step which is one step above the annual salary such person received on the last day of employment immediately preceding said appointment.
  (4) Any person who was a certified peace officer employed on a full-time basis by this state, the United States or any of the several states, or a political subdivision or authority thereof, may be appointed to the salary step above the entry level based on one step for every three years' experience as a full-time certified peace officer.
(f) Personnel appointed pursuant to this Code section shall be reimbursed for actual expenses incurred in the performance of their official duties in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 15-18-12.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 52,§; 23, eff. 1/1/2013.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 572,§; 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§; 15, eff. 4/7/2005.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 519, §; 1, eff. 7/1/2004.
