# § 15-18-6.1. Representation of state in juvenile court cases

(a) The district attorney shall be responsible for representing the state in any appeal from the juvenile court. Except as provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, the district attorney shall be responsible for representing the state in the prosecution of delinquency cases in the juvenile court and may represent the state as parens patraie in cases involving a child in need of services. The district attorney may designate assistant district attorneys, investigators, victim and witness assistance personnel, and other employees to assist in juvenile court.
(b) In counties with a solicitor-general for the state court, the solicitor-general may, with the approval of the district attorney, represent the state in prosecution of juvenile traffic offenses and in any delinquency case arising out of the operation of a motor vehicle or a watercraft.
(c) If as a result of workload, lack of staff, or other cause the district attorney determines that his or her office cannot provide representation for the state in a juvenile court of a county, other than for an appeal, the district attorney shall notify in writing the chief judge of superior court, the judge or judges of the juvenile court, and the chairperson of the county governing authority of such county of such determination. A copy of such notice shall be provided to the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia. If the district attorney determines that his or her office may resume representation in juvenile court, he or she shall notify the chief judge of the superior court, the judge or judges of the juvenile court, and the chairperson of the county governing authority in writing.
(d) Upon receipt of the notice set forth in subsection (c) of this Code section, the governing authority of such county may appoint one or more attorneys to represent the state in prosecuting delinquency and child in need of services cases in juvenile court. Such attorney shall be compensated in an amount to be fixed by the governing authority of such county. The governing authority shall determine and state in writing whether an attorney shall serve on a full-time or part-time basis. An attorney appointed to serve on a full-time basis shall not engage in the private practice of law. An attorney appointed to serve on a part-time basis may engage in the private practice of law, but shall not represent a child charged with committing a delinquent act or being a child in need of services in the juvenile court of the county in which he or she serves as part-time prosecutor nor may he or she appear in any matter in which he or she has exercised jurisdiction.
(e) An attorney appointed pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section shall have all of the powers, duties, and authority of the district attorney with regard to delinquency and child in need of services cases and shall be subject to all laws and rules governing the conduct of prosecuting attorneys in this state. If such attorney is disqualified from interest or relationship to engage in prosecution, the provisions of Code Section 15-18-5 shall apply.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 75,§ 2-8, eff. 5/5/2015.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 4-4, eff. 1/1/2014.
