# § 15-18-91. Creation of office of prosecuting attorney of municipal court; term; cooperative efforts

(a) Subject to the provisions of this article, the governing authority of a municipality shall be authorized to create the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court. A copy of the resolution or ordinance creating the office of prosecuting attorney of the municipal court shall be provided to the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia.
(b) It shall be the duty of the municipal court clerk, or such other person designated by the governing authority of a municipality, to notify the Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia of the name of any person appointed to be the prosecuting attorney of a municipal court within 30 days of such appointment.
(c) Unless otherwise provided by the charter of such municipality or other local law, the prosecuting attorney of the municipal court shall serve a term of office to be determined by the governing authority of such municipality.
(d) The governing authority of a municipality shall also be authorized to contract with the district attorney of the judicial circuit in which such municipality is located or the solicitor-general of the state court of the county in which such municipality is located for such officer to perform the duties of the prosecuting attorney in such municipal court. Any district attorney or solicitor-general entering into any such contract may assign such other members of his or her staff to prosecute in the municipal court.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 534,§ 4, eff. 4/11/2012.
