# § 15-18-70. Chief or acting assistant solicitor-general

(a) In any solicitor-general's office in which the solicitor-general is authorized to employ two or more assistant solicitors-general, the solicitor-general may designate in writing an assistant solicitor-general as the chief assistant solicitor-general. In addition to such assistant solicitor-general's other duties, the chief assistant solicitor-general shall have such administrative and supervisory duties as may be assigned by the solicitor-general.
(b)
  (1) If the solicitor-general is unable to perform the duties of the office because of physical or mental disability, the chief assistant solicitor-general shall have the same powers, duties, and responsibilities as the solicitor-general. Said authority shall terminate upon the incumbent solicitor-general's resuming the duties of said office. Any question of fact concerning the disability of a solicitor-general shall be determined by the superior court sitting without a jury in the same manner and subject to the same procedures as is provided by Article V, Section IV of the Georgia Constitution for elected constitutional executive officers.
  (2) If the solicitor-general shall be temporarily absent from the county such that he or she is not available to perform the duties of said office, the solicitor-general may authorize, in writing, the chief assistant solicitor-general to exercise any of the powers, duties, and responsibilities of the solicitor-general during such absence.
  (3) If the solicitor-general shall be absent for a period of more than 30 days as a result of ordered military duty, as defined in Code Section 38-2-279, or as a result of a disability as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the chief assistant solicitor-general shall be designated as the acting solicitor-general. If no chief assistant solicitor-general has been designated by the solicitor-general, the solicitor-general shall designate a chief assistant solicitor-general prior to entering ordered military duty. Should the solicitor-general fail to designate a chief assistant solicitor-general, the assistant solicitor-general senior in time of service shall be designated the acting solicitor-general. The designation of an acting solicitor-general shall terminate upon the solicitor-general's release from ordered military duty or upon the solicitor-general's resuming the duties of said office as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection. If there are no assistant solicitors-general, a solicitor-general pro tempore shall be appointed as provided in Code Section 15-18-65. The designation shall terminate upon the solicitor-general's release from ordered military duty or upon the solicitor-general's resuming the duties of said office as provided in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (4) An acting solicitor-general, upon assuming the office, shall be compensated at the same rate as is authorized by general or local law for the solicitor-general. The acting solicitor-general shall retain such other benefits and emoluments as an assistant solicitor-general, including, but not limited to, membership in any retirement system which such assistant was a member of at the time of the appointment as acting solicitor-general.
  (5) The acting solicitor-general shall be authorized to appoint an additional assistant solicitor-general who shall be compensated in the same manner and from the same source or sources as the acting solicitor-general was compensated prior to being designated acting solicitor-general. Said appointment shall terminate upon the solicitor-general's resuming the duties of the office.
