# § 15-18-40. Prosecuting Attorneys' Council established; purpose and functions

(a) The Prosecuting Attorneys' Council of the State of Georgia is established.
(b) It shall be the purpose of the council to assist the prosecuting attorneys throughout the state in their efforts against criminal activity in the state; such assistance may include:
  (1) The obtaining, preparation, supplementation, and dissemination of indexes to and digests of the decisions of the Supreme Court and the Court of Appeals of Georgia and other courts, statutes, and legal authorities relating to criminal matters;
  (2) The preparation and distribution of a basic prosecutor's manual and other educational materials;
  (3) The preparation and distribution of model indictments, search warrants, interrogation devices, and other common and appropriate documents employed in the administration of criminal justice at the trial level;
  (4) The promotion of and assistance in the training of prosecuting attorneys;
  (5) The provision of legal research assistance to prosecuting attorneys;
  (6) The provision of such assistance to law enforcement agencies as may be lawful; and
  (7) The provision of such other assistance to prosecuting attorneys as may be authorized by law.
(c) The council:
  (1) Shall be the fiscal officer for the prosecuting attorneys and shall prepare and submit budget estimates of state appropriations necessary for the maintenance and operation of the district attorneys' and solicitors-general's offices; and
  (2) From such funds as may be appropriated or otherwise available for the operation of prosecuting attorneys, may provide such administrative functions, services, supplies, equipment, or operating expenses as may be necessary for the fulfillment of the duties and responsibilities of such prosecuting attorneys and may contract with any other department, bureau, agency, commission, institution, or authority of this state or any other entity for such purpose.
(d) Effective July 1, 2008, the ministerial functions of the commissioner of administrative services or of the Department of Administrative Services relating to the payment of salaries, benefits, and expenses for district attorneys and district attorney personnel appointed pursuant to Article 1 of this chapter or solicitors-general shall be transferred to and performed by the council.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 564,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 564,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2008.
