# § 47-6-22. Powers and duties of the board of trustees

(a) The general administration and responsibility for the proper operation of the system and for putting this chapter into effect are vested in the board.
(b) The board shall engage such actuarial and other services as shall be required to transact the business of the system.
(c) The board shall designate an actuary who shall be the technical adviser of the board on matters regarding the operation of the system and shall perform such other duties as are required in connection therewith.
(d) At least once in each five-year period following the date of establishment, the actuary shall make an actuarial investigation into the mortality, service, and compensation experience of the members and beneficiaries of the system and shall make a valuation of the contingent assets and liabilities of the system. The board, after taking into account the results of such investigation and valuation, shall adopt for the system such mortality, service, and other tables as shall be deemed necessary.
(e) On the basis of regular interest and tables adopted by the board, the actuaries shall make valuations of the contingent assets and liabilities of the system at least once every three years.
(f) The board shall keep in convenient form such data as shall be necessary for the actuarial valuations of the contingent assets and liabilities of the system and for checking the experience of the system.
(g) The board shall determine, from time to time, the rate of regular interest for use in all calculations, with the rate of 4 percent per annum applicable unless changed by the board.
(h) Subject to the limitations of this chapter, the board shall, from time to time, establish rules and regulations for the administration of the system and for the transaction of business.
(i) The board shall keep a record of all of its proceedings under this chapter, which record shall be open to the public.
(j) All persons employed by the board and the expenses of the board shall be paid from funds appropriated to the General Assembly.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 681,§ 65, eff. 7/1/2010.
