# § 47-6-60. Employee contributions to the retirement system; payment of employee contributions on behalf of the member; additional contributions

(a) Until June 30, 2022, each member shall contribute 7 1/2 percent of his or her monthly salary. Such contributions shall be made through payroll deductions by the legislative fiscal officer.
(a.1) On and after July 1, 2022, each member shall contribute $165.00 each month; provided, however, that the member serving as the presiding officer of the House of Representatives shall contribute an additional $660.00 each month. Such contributions shall be made through payroll deductions by the legislative fiscal officer.
(b) Every member shall be deemed to consent and agree to the deductions made and provided for in this Code section; and payment of salary or compensation less such deduction shall be a full and complete discharge and acquittance of all claims and demands whatsoever for the services rendered by such person during the period covered by such payments, except as to the benefits provided under the system.
(c) Each of the amounts so deducted shall be credited to the individual account of the member from whose compensation the deduction was made.
(d) From and after January 12, 1981, the employer shall pay to the system on each and every payroll period employee contributions and group term life insurance contributions on behalf of and to the credit of members in an amount equal to the amount which would be paid pursuant to Code Section 47-2-54 if the member were a member of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia. Such members shall have the additional amount of employee contributions required by this chapter deducted by the legislative fiscal officer from their monthly salary.
(e) All members shall retain, have, and be subject to all other rights, privileges, obligations, and duties provided for by other provisions of this chapter; and all such other provisions shall remain in full force and effect with respect to any matter not specifically provided for in this Code section.
(f) Until June 30, 2022, in addition to the employee contributions required by subsections (a) and (d) of this Code section, effective July 1, 1986, each member shall contribute 1 percent of the member's monthly salary to the system. Such members shall have such additional amount of employee contributions required by this subsection deducted by the legislative fiscal officer from their monthly salary along with the other deduction from such salary made by said legislative fiscal officer pursuant to subsections (a) and (d) of this Code section.
(g) The employee contributions described in this chapter that are paid by the employer are intended to be pick-up contributions in accordance with Section 414(h) of the federal Internal Revenue Code. Such contributions are mandatory, and no member is entitled under any circumstances to receive such contributions in cash in lieu of having them contributed to the retirement system. Such contributions shall be 100 percent vested for all purposes under the retirement system.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 747,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2022, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law".
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 521,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2014.
