# § 47-6-84. Termination of retirement allowance upon return to service; retirement benefits for retired members returning to service in the General Assembly; board of trustees to be notified within 30 days if public employer employs retired plan member

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "public employer" means any branch of state government and any state agency, department, board, bureau, or other instrumentality. This term also includes the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia and any public school system, including, but not limited to, primary, secondary, and postsecondary institutions operated by local or independent boards of education that receive any funds from the State of Georgia or any agency thereof.
(b)
  (1) Except as provided in paragraph (2) of this subsection, if any retired member returns to the service of a public employer in any position, including, without limitation, service directly or indirectly as or for an independent contractor, except as a member of the General Assembly, the member's retirement allowance shall cease. Upon cessation of such service, the retired member, after proper notification to the board, shall receive the same retirement allowance which the member was receiving prior to returning to service of a public employer.
  (2) Notwithstanding any other provisions in this chapter to the contrary, the retirement allowance of a retired member who returns to the service of a public employer in any position, including, without limitation, service directly or indirectly as or for an independent contractor, other than as a member of the General Assembly shall not cease provided that such member performs no more than 1,040 hours of such service in any calendar year.
(c)
  (1) If a retired member returns to service as a member of the General Assembly after the member has reached normal retirement age, the retired member may either continue to receive a retirement benefit while serving as a member of the General Assembly or reestablish active membership in the retirement system. If the election is to reestablish active membership in the retirement system, the member shall have the same creditable service which the member possessed at the time of retirement and shall accumulate additional creditable service so long as such active membership continues. Except as otherwise provided by paragraph (2) of this subsection, a retired member who returns to service in the General Assembly shall make the election provided for in this paragraph within 30 days after taking office. Such election shall be made in writing to the board of trustees and shall be irrevocable. If a retired member returns to service as a member of the General Assembly before the member has reached normal retirement age, the retired member shall reestablish active membership in the retirement system. The member shall have the same creditable service which the member possessed at the time of retirement and shall accumulate additional creditable service so long as such active membership continues.
  (2) A retired member who returned to service in the General Assembly prior to the existence of the option to reestablish active membership in the retirement system shall have the right to make the election provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection at any time prior to January 1, 1991. In addition to creditable service provided for in paragraph (1) of this subsection, any such retired member who elects to reestablish active membership in the retirement system may obtain creditable service for service in the General Assembly rendered from the time of returning to service in the General Assembly until the date of reestablishing active membership in the retirement system. In order to obtain such creditable service, the member shall pay to the board of trustees the employee contributions which would have been paid to the retirement system during the period for which such creditable service is claimed, plus regular interest thereon compounded annually from the time the service in the General Assembly was rendered until the date of payment.
(d) Any public employer that employs a retired plan member shall within 30 days of the employee's accepting employment notify the board of trustees in writing stating the name of the plan member and the number of hours the employee is expected to work annually and shall provide such other information as the board may request. Any employer that fails to notify the board of trustees as required by this subsection shall reimburse the retirement system for any benefits wrongfully paid. It shall be the duty of the retired plan member seeking employment by the employer to notify the employer of his or her retirement status prior to accepting such position. If a retired plan member fails to so notify the employer and the employer becomes liable to the retirement system, the plan member shall hold the employer harmless for all such liability.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 220,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 646,§; 3, eff. 7/1/2012, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47; otherwise, this amendment shall be automatically repealed on 7/1/2012, as required by Code Section 47-20-50(a).
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 275,§; 27, eff. 5/11/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 156,§; 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
