# § 36-85-1. Definitions

(1) "Administrator" means any person who administers a group self-insurance fund other than the interlocal risk management agency.
(2) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Insurance.
(3) "County" means any county of the State of Georgia. Such term shall include any public authority, commission, board, or similar agency which is created by local or general Act of the General Assembly and which carries out its functions on a county-wide basis or wholly within the unincorporated area of a county. The term shall also include any such body which is created or activated by a resolution or ordinance of the governing body of the county individually or jointly with other political subdivisions of the state.
(4) "General liability" means liability for bodily injury, death, or damage to property owned by others to which a municipality or county may be subject either directly or by reason of liability arising out of an act, error, or omission of its employee, agent, or officer in the course and scope of employment.
(5) "Governing authority" means the body which exercises the legislative functions of the municipality or county.
(6) "Group self-insurance fund" or "fund" means a pool of public moneys established by an interlocal risk management agency from contributions of its members in order to pool the risks of accident, disability, supplemental medical, general liability, motor vehicle liability, property damage, or any combination of such risks.
(7) "Interlocal risk management agency" or "agency" means an association formed by municipalities or counties by the execution of an intergovernmental contract for the development and administration of an interlocal risk management program and one or more group self-insurance funds.
(8) "Interlocal risk management program" means a plan and activities carried out under such plan by an interlocal risk management agency to reduce risk of loss on account of accident, disability, supplemental medical, general liability, motor vehicle liability, or property damage, including safety engineering and other loss prevention and control techniques, and to administer one or more group self-insurance funds, including the processing and defense of claims brought against members of the agency.
(9) "Motor vehicle liability" means liability to which a municipality or county may be subject either directly or by reason of liability arising out of the use of a motor vehicle by its employee, agent, or officer in the course and scope of employment. Said term shall also include loss on account of property damage to motor vehicles.
(10) "Municipality" means a municipal corporation of the State of Georgia. Such term shall include any public authority, commission, board, or similar agency which is created by general or local Act of the General Assembly and which carries out its functions wholly or partly within the boundaries of the municipality. The term shall also include such bodies which are created or activated by an ordinance or resolution of the governing body of the municipality individually or jointly with other political subdivisions of the state. The term shall also include any independent school system of this state which elects to participate in the interlocal risk management agency composed of municipalities; provided, however, such independent school system must have a full-time equivalent student count of at least 2,800 in order to elect to become a member of the interlocal risk management agency composed of municipalities.
(11) "Property damage" means loss to which a municipality or county may be subject by reason of physical damage or destruction to real or personal property owned or leased by such municipality or county.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 36, eff. 5/12/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 142,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2018.
