# § 36-85-2. Formation; functions; counties and municipalities as separate classes; agreements creating agencies; files of administrator are sole property of agency

(a) A group of municipalities or a group of counties may execute an intergovernmental contract among themselves to form and become members of an interlocal risk management agency. After an interlocal risk management agency has been formed, any municipality or county may, subject to the bylaws and requirements of such agency, become a member and, through participation in the agency, may:
  (1) Pool its general liability risks in whole or in part with those of other municipalities or counties;
  (2) Pool its motor vehicle liability risks in whole or in part with those of other municipalities or counties;
  (3) Pool its property damage risks in whole or in part with those of other municipalities or counties; or
  (4) Jointly purchase accident, disability, supplemental medical, general liability, motor vehicle liability, or property damage insurance with other municipalities or counties participating in and belonging to the interlocal risk management agency, the participating municipalities or counties to be coinsured under a master policy or policies with the total premium apportioned among such participants.
(b) For the purposes of this chapter, municipalities and counties shall be deemed to constitute separate classes, and no member of any one such class shall join with a member of another class for the purpose of creating an interlocal risk management agency. There shall be only one interlocal risk management agency established for each class; provided, however, if the Commissioner determines that there are special or unique circumstances or needs of a group of counties or municipalities which justify the establishment of an additional interlocal risk management agency or agencies, he may authorize the establishment of such additional agency or agencies. Each agency may establish such group self-insurance funds as may be authorized by the Commissioner of Insurance.
(c) All arrangements and agreements made under the authority of this chapter shall be in writing. A municipality or county may become a member of an interlocal risk management agency by the adoption of a resolution or ordinance by the governing authority of the municipality or county. The interlocal risk management agency shall operate under such name and style as shall be provided in the intergovernmental contract creating such agency and shall have the power to bring and defend actions in all courts.
(d) All books, records, and files maintained by any administrator of any fund established by the agency, including but not limited to audit data and all active and inactive claim files, shall at all times be the sole property of the agency and shall be surrendered immediately to the agency upon demand.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 142,§ 3, eff. 1/1/2018.
