# § 26-2-411. Licensing and inspection of mobile vehicles

(a) Any person who sells, displays for sale, or offers for sale at retail any fresh or frozen meat, poultry, or seafood in, on, or from a mobile vehicle shall prominently display in such mobile vehicle a current and valid license issued by the Department of Agriculture. Such license shall be issued by the department following the satisfactory inspection of such mobile vehicle and the meat, poultry, or seafood offered for sale therefrom to determine compliance with the laws of this state and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner and the payment of a license fee of $100.00 per vehicle per year or any portion thereof. All licenses shall expire 12 months from the date of issue. Any license may be renewed for any subsequent year upon a satisfactory inspection of the mobile vehicle and its contents and the payment of the license fee. Any fees collected pursuant to this Code section shall be retained pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 45-12-92.1.
(b) As a condition for retaining a license issued pursuant to this article, a mobile vehicle shall be inspected by the department a minimum of once every six months and a stamp, seal, or other marking showing the date of such inspection shall be affixed to the license by the department or its inspector. There shall be no charge or fee for such semi-annual inspection stamp, seal, or other marking. It shall be the duty of the owner or operator of each mobile vehicle licensed or required to be licensed under this article to make such mobile vehicle available to the department for inspection a minimum of once every six months at a reasonable time and place specified by the department. Said place shall be within 100 miles of the county in which the license is issued.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-59, eff. 5/12/2010.
