# § 26-2-268. Information labels affixed to cases of eggs

(a) At the time of packing and candling of each case of eggs, the producer or dealer shall affix a label not less than two inches by four inches or not less than eight square inches on one end of each case and on this label shall be legibly printed or stamped, in letters not less than one-fourth of an inch in size, the date when the eggs were packed and candled or the expiration date, which shall not exceed 45 days from the date packed; the size and grade of the eggs; and either the name and address of the packer or the U.S.D.A. assigned plant number or a state approved plant identification code. The name of the state of origin may be given. When eggs are sold in cartons, the cartons must show the date packed or the expiration date, which shall not exceed 45 days from the date packed, and the grade and size, together with either the name and address of the packer or the U.S.D.A. assigned plant number or a state approved plant identification code. The state of origin may also be given.
(b) Abbreviations of any words in the classification or in designating the grade and size shall not be permitted. The information pertaining to the grade and size shall be shown in legible letters not less than one-fourth of an inch in size. The information pertaining to the name and address of the packer or the U.S.D.A. assigned plant number or a state approved plant identification code and the date packed or expiration date shall be legibly given. All wording on egg cases and egg cartons must be in the English language and must have prior approval from the Georgia Department of Agriculture before using.
(c) Words or phrases tending to becloud or nullify the proper classification of eggs shall not be permitted. Each word of the classification, including the name of the state of origin, shall appear in the same size type and color in any printed advertisement. Abbreviations of any word in the classification or in designating the size and grade to which eggs belong shall not be permitted. Every person advertising eggs for sale, at retail or wholesale, in newspapers, by window displays, or otherwise shall set forth in the advertisement the classification as to size and grade of the eggs offered for sale. The classification shall be set forth in letters equal in size to those advertising the eggs for sale.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 35, § 1, eff. 5/22/2003.
