# § 26-2-249. Unlawful acts

(1) To handle milk, cream, butter, ice cream, or other dairy products in unclean or unsanitary places or in an unsanitary manner;
(2) To keep, store, or prepare for market any milk, cream, or other dairy products in the same building or enclosure where any hide or fur or any cow, horse, nontraditional livestock, hog, or other livestock is kept;
(3) To handle or ship milk, cream, ice cream, or other dairy products in unclean or unsanitary vessels;
(4) To expose milk, cream, ice cream, or other dairy products to flies or to any contaminating influence likely to convey pathogenic or other injurious bacteria;
(5) For any common carrier, railway, or express company to neglect or fail to remove or ship from its depot, on the day of its arrival there for shipment, any milk, cream, or other dairy products left at the depot for transportation;
(6) For any common carrier, railway, or express company to allow merchandise of a contaminating nature to be stored on or with dairy products;
(7) To use or possess any branded or registered cream can or milk can or ice cream container for any purpose other than the handling, storing, or shipping of milk, cream, or ice cream; provided, however, that no person other than the rightful owner thereof shall use or possess any can, bottle, or other receptacle if such receptacle shall be marked with the brand or trademark of the owner. Nothing in this paragraph shall prohibit the temporary possession by a business involved in the normal processing, distribution, or retail sale of dairy products of any can, bottle, or other receptacle which is marked with the brand or trademark of another person or entity prior to its return to the rightful owner in the normal course of business, or if purchased from the rightful owner;
(8) To sell or offer for sale ice cream from a container or a compartment of a cabinet or fountain which contains any article of food other than ice cream or dairy products;
(9) To sell or offer for sale milk, cream, butter, cheese, ice cream, or other dairy products that are not pure and fresh and handled with clean utensils;
(10) To sell or offer for sale milk or cream from diseased or unhealthy animals or which was handled by any person suffering from or coming in contact with persons affected with any contagious disease;
(11) To sell or offer for sale any milk or cream which shall have been exposed to contamination or into which shall have fallen any unsanitary articles or any foreign substance which would render the milk or cream or the product manufactured therefrom unfit for human consumption; or
(12) To sell or offer for sale milk, cream, butter, cheese, ice cream, or other dairy products which do not comply with the standards and requirements of this article or the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder except raw milk for human consumption which complies with the standards and requirements of Article 18 of this chapter and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 879,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 26, eff. 3/13/2015.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 534,§ 25, eff. 5/12/2008.
