# § 26-2-261. Classification of eggs

(a) Within the intent and purpose of this article, eggs classified as:
  (1) Storage eggs shall be construed to mean eggs which have been in cold storage for a period of 31 days or longer; and
  (2) Fresh eggs shall be construed to mean eggs which have been held in cold storage not longer than 30 days from the date they were packed.
(b) Each container of eggs must be labeled to show size or weight class and standard of quality.
(c) All eggs sold or offered for sale by dealers, as designated by this article, shall be graded as to net weight and standards of quality.
  (1) The size or weight classes shall be: Size or Weight ClassesMinimum Net Wt. Per Doz. (Oz.)Min. Net Wt. For Indv. Eggs at Rate Per Doz. (Oz.)Min. Net Wt. Per 30 Doz. (Lbs.)Jumbo302956Extra Large272650 1/2Large242345Medium212039 1/2Small181734Pee Wee151428The weight tolerance, per dozen, where eggs are sold at retail, shall be not more than two eggs of the minimum net weight for individual eggs at the rate per dozen. Not more than 5 percent tolerance of the minimum net weight for individual eggs at the rate per dozen shall be allowed where eggs are sold in wholesale lots.
  (2) The quality classifications for individual eggs shall be:
    (A) Grade AA:
      (i) Shell: clean, unbroken, practically normal.
      (ii) Air cell: one-eighth inch or less in depth, unlimited movement, and free or bubbly.
      (iii) Yolk: outline slightly defined, practically free from defects.
      (iv) White: firm, clear.
    (B) Grade A:
      (i) Shell: clean, unbroken, practically normal.
      (ii) Air cell: three-sixteenths inch or less in depth, unlimited movement, and free or bubbly.
      (iii) Yolk: outline fairly well defined, practically free from defects.
      (iv) White: reasonably firm, clear.
    (C) Grade B:
      (i) Shell: clean to slightly stained (but not more than one thirty-second of surface if localized or one-sixteenth of surface if scattered), unbroken, abnormal.
      (ii) Air cell: over three-sixteenths inch in depth, unlimited movement, and free or bubbly.
      (iii) Yolk: outline plainly visible, enlarged and flattened, clearly visible germ development but no blood, other serious defects.
      (iv) White: weak and watery, small blood and meat spots present (but not more than one-eighth inch in diameter aggregate).
(d) The U.S. Standards, Grades, and Weight Classes for Shell Eggs, Part 56, Subpart C, Paragraphs 56,216 and 56,217 established pursuant to the federal Agricultural Marketing Act of 1946 are adopted by reference.
(e) All of the classifications indicated in this Code section shall be determined by candling.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 26, eff. 3/13/2015.
