# § 26-2-103. Post-mortem inspection and marking of carcasses and parts; disposition of condemned carcasses and parts; reinspection; removal of inspectors

(a) The Commissioner shall cause to be made, by inspectors appointed for that purpose, a post-mortem examination and inspection of the carcasses and parts thereof of all cattle, sheep, swine, nontraditional livestock, rabbits, goats, horses, mules, and other equines, capable of use as human food, to be prepared at any slaughtering, meat-canning, salting, packing, rendering, or similar establishment in this state in which such articles are prepared for commerce.
(b) The carcasses and parts thereof of all such animals found to be not adulterated shall be marked, stamped, tagged, or labeled as "Inspected and Passed"; and said inspectors shall label, mark, stamp, or tag as "Inspected and Condemned," all carcasses and parts thereof of animals found to be adulterated; and all carcasses and parts thereof thus inspected and condemned shall be made unfit for human consumption by such establishment in the presence of an inspector; and the Commissioner may remove inspectors from any establishment which fails so to destroy any such condemned carcass or part thereof.
(c) Inspectors, after the first inspection, shall, when they deem it necessary, reinspect said carcasses or parts thereof to determine whether since the first inspection the same have become adulterated. If any carcass or any part thereof shall, upon examination and inspection subsequent to the first examination and inspection, be found to be adulterated, it shall be made unfit for human consumption by such establishment in the presence of an inspector. The Commissioner may remove inspectors from any establishment which fails to destroy any such condemned carcass or part thereof.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 534,§ 14, eff. 5/12/2008.
