# § 26-2-460. Health status of animals; testing and records

(a) All raw milk for human consumption within the State of Georgia shall be from healthy animals. Raw milk from unhealthy animals shall not be offered for sale, be given away, or combined with other milk.
(b) All animals producing raw milk for human consumption shall be tested for brucellosis and tuberculosis every 12 months. Animals showing positive by lesions or a positive test shall be reported to the department, and:
  (1) Shall be separated, and kept separate, from the remainder of the herd;
  (2) A certificate, identifying each animal, signed by a licensed veterinarian and the director of the laboratory making the test, shall be filed with the department;
  (3) Shall be retested by a licensed veterinarian at a frequency specified by the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), and test results shall be filed with the department; and
  (4) Disposition of diseased animals shall be conducted in accordance with guidelines published by the USDA and shall be reported to the department.
(c) For diseases other than brucellosis and tuberculosis, the department shall require such physical, chemical, or bacteriological tests as it deems necessary. The diagnosis of other diseases in dairy animals shall be based upon the findings of a licensed veterinarian. Any diseased animal disclosed by such test shall be disposed of as the department directs.
(d) Animals shipped into Georgia for the purpose of milking shall be tested for tuberculosis and brucellosis within 30 days prior to being brought into the state. Brucellosis testing shall not be required for any cattle that have been vaccinated for brucellosis and are under 30 months of age.
(e) Records supporting the tests required in this Code section shall be available to the department and be validated with the signature of a licensed veterinarian.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 879,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
