# § 26-2-296. Duties of Commissioner of Agriculture

(a) The Commissioner of Agriculture is authorized as the administrative agency and is directed:
  (1) To make, amend, and rescind such rules and regulations, in his discretion, as may be necessary to carry out this article, including, but without being limited to, such orders, rules, and regulations as he is hereinafter specifically authorized and directed to make; and
  (2) From time to time to adopt, in his discretion, such regulations changing or adding to the required ingredients for flour, bread, corn meal, or grits, specified in Code Sections 26-2-291 through 26-2-293, as shall be necessary to conform to the definitions and standards of identity of enriched flour, enriched bread, enriched degerminated corn meal, and enriched degerminated hominy grits, from time to time promulgated by the rules and regulations made by the Commissioner.
(b) All orders, rules, and regulations adopted by the Department of Agriculture pursuant to this article shall be published as provided for in subsection (c) of this Code section, and, within the limits specified by this article, shall become effective upon such date as the Commissioner shall fix.
(c) Whenever under this article publication of any notice, order, rule, or regulation is required, such publication shall be made at least three times in ten days in newspapers of general circulation in three different sections of the state.
(d) The Commissioner is authorized to collect samples for analysis and to conduct examinations and investigations for the purposes of this article through any officers or employees under his supervision; and all such officers and employees shall have authority to enter to inspect any factory, mill, warehouse, shop, or establishment where flour, bread, corn meal, or grits is manufactured, processed, packed, sold, or held, or to inspect any vehicle and any flour, bread, corn meal, or grits therein, and all pertinent equipment, materials, containers, and labeling.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 9,§ 26, eff. 3/13/2015.
