# § 26-2-457. Sampling and collection; testing and analysis

(a) Samples of raw milk for human consumption may be taken for scientific examination for public health purposes, at any reasonable time or place, and examined bacteriologically or for any other public health reason by agents of the department.
(b) Samples of raw milk for human consumption shall be collected and tested prior to a permit being issued.
(c) The department shall collect samples to obtain satisfactory pathogenic testing results prior to:
  (1) Receiving a permit and beginning production or distribution; or
  (2) Reinstatement of a permit that has been suspended because of positive results of testing for pathogenic organisms in association with a suspected outbreak of disease.
(d) During any consecutive six months, at least four samples of raw milk for human consumption shall be collected from each producer in at least four separate months, except when three months show a month containing two sampling dates separated by at least 20 days. These samples shall be obtained under the direction of the department or shall be taken from each producer under the direction of the department and delivered in accordance with this Code section.
(e) Required bacterial counts, somatic cell counts, and cooling temperature checks shall be performed on raw milk for human consumption. In addition, drug tests on each producer's milk shall be conducted at least four times during any consecutive six months.
(f) When multiple samples of the same raw milk for human consumption are collected from the same producer from multiple tanks on the same day, the laboratory results shall be averaged arithmetically by the department and recorded as the official results for that day. This is applicable for bacterial, including standard plate count and coliform, somatic cell count, and temperature determinations only.
(g) Whenever two of the last four consecutive bacterial counts, somatic cell counts, coliform determinations, or cooling temperatures, taken on separate days exceed the standard for the milk required by this article, the department shall send a certified or hand-delivered written notice thereof to the person concerned. This notice shall be in effect so long as two of the last four consecutive samples exceed the standard. An additional sample shall be taken within 21 days of the sending of such notice, but not before the lapse of three days. Immediate suspension of permit shall be implemented whenever the standard is violated by three of the last five bacterial counts, somatic cell counts, coliform determinations, or cooling temperatures.
(h) When sampling for pathogenic organisms is conducted in association with a suspected outbreak of disease, and the samples test positive for pathogenic organisms, the department shall immediately suspend the permit. The permit shall remain suspended until a representative sample containing a minimum of two consecutive milkings are found to be free of pathogenic organisms.
(i) Samples shall be analyzed at an official or appropriate officially designated laboratory. All sampling procedures and required laboratory examinations shall be in substantial compliance with the latest edition of Standard Methods for the Examination of Dairy Products (SMEDP) of the American Public Health Association, and the latest edition of Official Methods of Analysis (OMA) of the Association of Official Agricultural Chemists (AOAC) International. Such procedures, including the certification of sample collectors, and examinations shall be evaluated in accordance with the Evaluation of Milk Laboratories.
(j) All violations of bacteria, somatic cell counts, coliform, and cooling temperature standards shall be followed promptly by inspection to determine and correct the cause.

## History

Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 879,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
