# § 26-2-454. Permit required

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person that does not possess a permit from the department to manufacture, have in storage, sell or offer for sale therein, or offer to give away any raw milk for human consumption. Nothing in this article shall prohibit the storage and personal consumption of raw milk by the owner of an animal or a resident of the premises of production.
(b) Only a person that complies with the requirements of this article shall be entitled to receive and retain such a permit. Permits shall not be transferable to other persons or locations.
(c) Each producer and distributor of raw milk for human consumption shall hold a valid permit issued by the department prior to beginning operation. No permit shall be issued until all parts of the operation meet the requirements of this article.
(d) Application for all licenses and permits provided for in this article shall be made to the Commissioner on such forms as he or she may prescribe. All licenses shall be valid for a period of one year unless revoked or suspended as provided in this article. All licenses shall be renewable upon submission of all required application forms. The Commissioner may deny, refuse, suspend, or revoke any license, after notice and a hearing, for any violation of or failure to comply with this article or the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder; provided, however, that the hearing shall be held in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2023.
Added by 2022 Ga. Laws 879,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
