# § 26-2-243. Intermingling of Grade A milk or milk products with other grades

(a) It is the intent and purpose of this Code section to prohibit the intermingling of Grade A milk and Grade A milk products with milk and milk products other than Grade A.
(b) No person producing, handling, processing, manufacturing, or dealing in milk or milk products, which person produces, receives, distributes, or in any manner handles Grade A raw whole milk, Grade A pasteurized whole milk, or Grade A milk products, shall receive, store, handle, distribute, or otherwise allow raw milk for human consumption or raw whole milk for manufacturing purposes to be introduced upon the premises where the operations are conducted. At all times, such person shall be subject to inspection by the Commissioner and shall hold a Grade A permit, issued by the Commissioner, to deal in Grade A milk and Grade A milk products and shall conduct business pursuant to the laws of this state and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner made thereunder, to the end that milk products shall be handled only in the manner provided for in this article and that inferior quality milk not be sold to the consuming public as superior quality milk.
(c) No person producing, handling, processing, manufacturing, or dealing in milk or milk products, which person produces, receives, distributes, or in any manner handles raw whole milk for manufacturing purposes, shall introduce any Grade A raw whole milk, Grade A pasteurized milk, or Grade A milk products for other than manufacturing purposes upon the premises where manufactured milk products operations are conducted. At all times such persons shall be subject to inspection by the Commissioner and shall hold a manufacturing permit, issued by the Commissioner, to deal in manufactured milk products and shall conduct business pursuant to the laws of this state and the rules and regulations of the Commissioner made thereunder, to the end that grades of milk shall be handled only in the manner provided for in this article and that inferior quality milk not be sold to the consuming public as superior quality milk.
(d) The prohibitions contained in subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section shall not be applicable where separate systems and other facilities are provided to maintain the separation and identity of the various grades and types of milk.
(e) After making inspections or conducting appropriate tests, if the Commissioner determines that any law, rule, or regulation has been violated or if he has reason to believe that any of the milk or milk products enumerated in subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section are dangerous for human consumption, the Commissioner, after notice, is authorized to place one or more inspectors on such premises upon a 24 hour basis for such a period of time as he deems necessary to satisfy himself that the laws and rules and regulations are being complied with. The cost of the inspection, to be fixed by the Commissioner at a cost not to exceed the actual cost of the inspection, shall be paid by such person to the Commissioner as a condition to the continued validity of the permit or the license under which the business is operated. The inspection charges provided in this subsection may be terminated by a request to the Commissioner for a hearing within two days after a charge of violation or the placing of the inspectors in the plant. Upon hearing and for cause shown, the Commissioner is authorized to impose the cost of inspection as a part of the penalty imposed. Nothing contained in this subsection shall be construed to prohibit the Commissioner from revoking or canceling any permit or license of any person doing business in this state who violates any of the laws of this state or the regulations made pursuant thereto.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 879,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2023.
