# § 26-2-34. Promulgation of regulations; notice and hearing for proposed amendments; variances or waivers

(a) The authority to promulgate regulations for the efficient enforcement of this article is vested in the Commissioner. The Commissioner is authorized to make the regulations promulgated under this article conform, insofar as practicable, with those promulgated under the federal act.
(b) Hearings authorized or required by this article shall be conducted by the Commissioner or such officer, agent, or employee as the Commissioner may designate for the purpose.
(c) Before promulgating any regulation authorized by Code Sections 26-2-35 and 26-2-37 and paragraph (10) of Code Section 26-2-28, the Commissioner shall give appropriate notice of the proposal and of the time and place for a hearing. The regulation so promulgated shall become effective on a date fixed by the Commissioner, which date shall not be prior to 30 days after its promulgation. Such regulation may be amended or repealed in the same manner as is provided for its adoption, except that, in the case of a regulation amending or repealing any such regulation, the Commissioner, to such an extent as is deemed necessary, in order to prevent undue hardship, may disregard the foregoing provisions regarding notices, hearing, or effective date.
(d)
  (1) For purposes of this subsection, the term:
    (A) "Substantial hardship" means a significant, unique, and demonstrable economic, technological, legal, or other type of hardship to the person requesting a variance or waiver which impairs the ability of the person to continue to function in the regulated practice or business.
    (B) "Variance" means a decision by an agency to grant a modification to all or part of the literal requirements of a rule to a person who is subject to the rule.
    (C) "Waiver" means a decision by an agency not to apply all or part of a rule to a person who is subject to the rule.
  (2) The Commissioner may grant a variance or waiver to any rule promulgated pursuant to this Code section when a person subject to such rule demonstrates that the purpose of the underlying statute upon which the rule is based can be or has been achieved by other specific means which are agreeable to the person seeking the variance or waiver and that strict application of the rule would create a substantial hardship to such person.
  (3) This subsection shall not apply, and no variance or waiver shall be sought or authorized, if the granting of such variance or waiver would be harmful to the public health, safety, or welfare.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 233,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
