# § 26-2-290. Definitions

(1) "Bread" means the foods commonly known and described as white bread and rolls, including, but not restricted to, Vienna bread, French bread, and Italian bread and rolls of the semibread dough type, such as soft rolls, hamburger, hot dog, parker house, etc., hard rolls, such as Vienna, Kaiser, etc., all made without fillings or icings, but shall not include sweet, yeast-raised rolls or sweet buns, cinnamon rolls or buns, butterfly rolls, etc.
(2) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Agriculture.
(3) "Degerminated corn meal" means all ground corn, corn meal, and bolted corn meal intended for human consumption which has undergone a refining process with a resultant loss of more than 10 percent of the germ.
(4) "Degerminated hominy grits" means all corn grits, grits, pearled grits, and endosperm portions of corn intended for human consumption which has undergone a refining process with a resultant loss of more than 10 percent of the germs.
(5) "Enrichment" as applied to flour, bread, meal, or grits means the addition thereto of vitamins and other ingredients of the nature required by this article; and the terms "enriched flour," "enriched bread," "enriched degerminated corn meal," and "enriched degerminated hominy grits" mean bread, flour, corn meal, or grits, as the case may be, which has been enriched to conform to the requirements of this article.
(6) "Flour" means flour of every kind and description made wholly or partly from wheat which conforms to the definition and standard of identity of flour, white flour, wheat flour, phosphated flour, self-rising flour, bromated flour, and plain flour as promulgated in the rules and regulations made by the Commissioner, but excludes whole-wheat flour made only from the whole-wheat berry with no part thereof removed, and also excludes special packaged flours not used for bread baking, such as cake, pancake, cracker, and pastry flours.
(7) "Person" means an individual, firm, corporation, partnership, association, joint stock company, trust, or any unincorporated organization.
