# § 26-2-25. Licensing of food sales establishments

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a food sales establishment without having first obtained a license from the Commissioner. No license issued under this article shall be suspended or revoked except for health and sanitation reasons or violations of this article and until the licensee to be affected shall be provided with reasonable notice thereof and an opportunity for hearing, as provided under Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Licenses issued under this article shall be renewed annually and shall not be transferable with respect to persons or location. Each food sales establishment licensed pursuant to this Code section shall post such license on the premises in an open and conspicuous manner so as to be visible to the public. Neither the state nor any county, municipality, or consolidated government shall issue or renew any business or occupation license or permit for any food sales establishment until the establishment complies with the requirements of this article.
(b) The Commissioner shall charge the following fees for the licenses issued pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section. The fee structure shall be based on the level of risk, procedural effort, and inspection time needed for each food sales establishment:
  (1) Tier 5 .................................... $300.00
  (2) Tier 4 .................................... 250.00
  (3) Tier 3.................................... 200.00
  (4) Tier 2.................................... 150.00
  (5) Tier 1.................................... 100.00
(c) The Department of Agriculture shall establish rules and regulations by which to assign each food sales establishment to a proper tier and to collect the fees provided for in this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 360,§ 1-57, eff. 5/12/2010.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 830, § 1, eff. 7/1/2002.
