# § 17-15-2. Definitions

(1) "Board" means the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council.
(2) "Claimant" means any person filing a claim pursuant to this chapter.
(3) "Crime" means:
  (A) An act which is committed in this state; in a state which does not have a victims' compensation program, if the claimant is a resident of this state; or in a state which has compensated the claimant in an amount less than the claimant would be entitled to pursuant to this chapter, if the claimant is a resident of this state, and which constitutes:
    (i) Hit and run in violation of Code Section 40-6-270;
    (ii) Homicide by vehicle in violation of Code Section 40-6-393;
    (iii) Serious injury by vehicle in violation of Code Section 40-6-394;
    (iv) A violation of Code Section 16-5-46;
    (v) A violation of Chapter 6 of Title 16;
    (vi) A violation of Part 2 of Article 3 of Chapter 12 of Title 16;
    (vii) A violation of Code Section 16-5-70;
    (viii) Aggravated assault with the intent to rape in violation of Code Section 16-5-21;
    (ix) An offense that has as an element the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against the person or property of another; or
    (x) Any other offense that is a felony and that, by its nature, involves a substantial risk that physical force against the person or property of another may be used in the course of committing the offense;
  (B) An act which constitutes international terrorism as defined in 18 U.S.C. Section 2331 against a resident of this state when such resident was outside the territorial boundaries of the United States when such act was committed; or
  (C) An act of mass violence involving a resident of this state when such resident was outside the territorial boundaries of the United States when such act was committed.
(4) "Direct service provider" means a public or nonprofit entity which provides aid, care, and assistance.
(5) "Director" means the director of the Criminal Justice Coordinating Council.
(6) "Forensic medical examination" means an examination provided to a person pursuant to subsection (c) of Code Section 16-6-1 or subsection (c) of Code Section 16-6-2 by trained medical personnel in order to gather evidence. Such examination shall include, but shall not be limited to:
  (A) An examination for physical trauma;
  (B) A determination as to the nature and extent of the physical trauma;
  (C) A patient interview;
  (D) Collection and evaluation of the evidence collected; and
  (E) Any additional testing deemed necessary by the examiner in order to collect evidence and provide treatment.
(7) "Fund" means the Georgia Crime Victims Emergency Fund.
(8) "Investigator" means an investigator of the board.
(9) "Serious mental or emotional trauma" means a nonphysical injury which has been documented by a licensed mental health professional and which meets the specifications promulgated by the board's rules and regulations relating to this type of trauma.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 551,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 17, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 54,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 53,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 56,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 840, § 2, eff. 5/13/2002.
