# § 17-15-7. Persons eligible for awards

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, the following persons shall be eligible for awards pursuant to this chapter:
  (1) A person who:
    (A) Is injured physically, who dies, or who suffers financial hardship as a result of being injured physically as a direct result of a crime;
    (B) Suffers a serious mental or emotional trauma as a result of being threatened with a crime which could result in physical injury or death;
    (C) Suffers a serious mental or emotional trauma as a result of being present during the commission of a crime;
    (D) Suffers a serious mental or emotional trauma as a result of being trafficked for labor servitude or sexual servitude as defined in Code Section 16-5-46; or
    (E) Is a dependent spouse, parent, step-parent, child, or step-child of a person who is injured physically, who dies, or who suffers financial hardship as a result of being injured physically as a direct result of a crime;
  (2) For purposes of an award under subsection (k) of Code Section 17-15-8, any member of the immediate family of a victim of homicide by vehicle caused by a violation of Code Section 40-6-391;
  (3) Any person who goes to the aid of another and suffers physical injury, serious mental or emotional trauma, or death as a direct result of acting, not recklessly, to prevent the commission of a crime, to apprehend lawfully a person reasonably suspected of having committed a crime, or to aid the victim of a crime or any person who is injured, traumatized, or killed while aiding or attempting to aid a law enforcement officer in the prevention of a crime or apprehension of a criminal at the officer's request;
  (4) Any person who is a victim of family violence as defined by Code Section 19-13-1 and anyone who is a victim as a result of a violation of Code Section 40-6-391; or
  (5) Any person who is not a direct service provider and who assumes the cost of an eligible expense of a victim regardless of such person's relationship to the victim or whether such person is a dependent of the victim.
(b)
  (1) Victims may be legal residents or nonresidents of this state. A surviving spouse, parent, step-parent, child, or step-child who is legally dependent for his or her principal support upon a deceased victim shall be entitled to file a claim under this chapter if the deceased victim would have been so entitled, regardless of the residence or nationality of the surviving spouse, parent, step-parent, child, or step-child.
  (2) Victims of crimes occurring within this state who are subject to federal jurisdiction shall be compensated on the same basis as resident victims of crimes.
(c) No award of any kind shall be made under this chapter to a victim injured while confined in any federal, state, county, or municipal jail, prison, or other correctional facility.
(d) No award of any kind shall be made under this chapter to a victim of a crime which occurred prior to July 1, 1989.
(e) A person who is criminally responsible for the crime upon which a claim is based or is an accomplice of such person shall not be eligible to receive an award with respect to such claim; provided, however, that such ineligibility shall not apply if the person is as defined in subparagraph (a)(1)(D) of this Code section.
(f) There shall be no denial of compensation to a claimant based on that victim's or claimant's familial relationship with the person who is criminally responsible for the crime.
(g) No award of any kind shall be made under this chapter to a victim of a crime for loss of property.
(h) A victim or claimant who has been convicted of a felony involving criminally injurious conduct and who is currently serving a sentence therefor shall not be considered eligible to receive an award under this chapter. For purposes of this subsection, "criminally injurious conduct" means a crime which occurs or is attempted in this state that results in physical injury, serious mental or emotional trauma, or death to a victim, which act is punishable by fine, imprisonment, or death. Such term shall not include acts arising out of the operation of motor vehicles, boats, or aircraft unless the acts were committed with the intent to inflict injury, trauma, or death or unless the acts committed were in violation of Code Section 40-6-391. For the purposes of this subsection, a person shall be deemed to have committed criminally injurious conduct notwithstanding that by reason of age, insanity, drunkenness, or other reason, he or she was legally incapable of committing a crime.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 169,§ 1, eff. 5/6/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 551,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 54,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 56,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 570, § 3, eff. 7/1/2004.
