# § 17-15-4. Powers of board

(a) The board shall have the following powers and duties:
  (1) To promulgate suitable rules and regulations to carry out the provisions and purposes of this chapter;
  (2) To request from the Attorney General, the Department of Public Safety, the Georgia Bureau of Investigation, district attorneys, solicitors-general, judges, county and municipal law enforcement agencies, and any other agency or department such assistance and data as will enable the board to determine the needs state wide for victim compensation and whether, and the extent to which, a claimant qualifies for an award. Any person, agency, or department listed in this paragraph is authorized to provide the board with the information requested upon receipt of a request from the board. Any provision of law providing for confidentiality of records shall not apply to a request of the board pursuant to this Code section; provided, however, that the board shall preserve the confidentiality of any such records received;
  (3) To hear and determine all appeals of denied claims for awards filed with the board pursuant to this chapter and to reinvestigate or reopen cases as the board deems necessary, including circumstances when it appears a claim may be time barred;
  (4) To apply for funds from, and to submit all necessary forms to, any federal agency participating in a cooperative program to compensate victims of crimes and to receive and administer federal funds for the purposes of this chapter;
  (5) To render awards to victims of crimes or to those other persons entitled to receive awards in the manner authorized by this chapter. Victim compensation payments may be made directly to direct service providers who are not the recipients of local, state, federal, or private grant funds awarded for purposes of providing direct services to victims of crimes. A victim or claimant may be paid directly in the case of lost wages, loss of support, and instances where the victim or claimant has paid the direct service provider and is filing for reimbursement. In all cases where the victim has incurred out-of-pocket expenses, such as lost wages or loss of support, or in cases where the victim or claimant has paid the direct service provider directly and is filing for reimbursement, the victim or claimant shall be paid first before any third party;
  (6) To carry out programs designed to inform the public of the purposes of this chapter; and
  (7) To render each year to the Governor and to the General Assembly a written report of its activities pursuant to this chapter.
(b) The board shall assist applicants with their claims for compensation through educational programs and administrative assistance.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 551,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
