# § 17-15-6. Investigation; decision by director; review by board; report to claimant

(a) A claim, once accepted for filing and completed, shall be assigned to an investigator. The investigator shall examine the papers filed in support of the claim and cause an investigation to be conducted into the validity of the claim. The investigation shall include, but shall not be limited to, an examination of law enforcement, court, and official records and reports concerning the crime and an examination of medical, psychiatric, counseling, financial, and hospital reports relating to the injury, serious mental or emotional trauma, or loss upon which the claim is based. All claims arising from the death of an individual as a direct result of a crime shall be considered together by a single investigator.
(b) Claims shall be investigated and determined regardless of whether a perpetrator has been apprehended, prosecuted, or convicted of any crime based upon the same incident or whether the alleged perpetrator has been acquitted or found not guilty of the crime in question.
(c) The investigator conducting the investigation shall file with the director a written report setting forth a recommendation and the investigator's reason therefor. The director shall render a decision and furnish the claimant with a copy of the report if so requested. In cases where an investigative report is provided, information deemed confidential in nature shall be excluded.
(d) The claimant may, within 30 days after receipt of the report of the decision of the director, make an application in writing to the director for review of the decision.
(e) Upon receipt of an application for review pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section, the director shall forward all relevant documents and information to the board. The board shall review the records and shall affirm or modify the decision of the director. If considered necessary by the board or if requested by the claimant, the board shall order a hearing prior to rendering a decision. At the hearing, any relevant evidence not legally privileged shall be admissible. The board shall render a decision within 90 days after completion of the investigation. If the director receives no application for review pursuant to subsection (d) of this Code section, the director's decision shall become final.
(f) The board, for purposes of this chapter, may subpoena witnesses, administer or cause to be administered oaths, and examine such parts of the books and records of the parties to proceedings as relate to questions in dispute.
(g) The director shall, within ten days after receipt of the board's final decision, make a report to the claimant, including a copy of the final decision and the reasons why the decision was made.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 551,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 56,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2009.
