# § 17-15-13. Debt to state created; payment as condition of probation or parole; payment into fund

(a) Any award or payment of benefits under this chapter shall create a debt due and owing to the state by any person found in a court of competent jurisdiction of this state to have committed an act resulting in compensation being paid pursuant to this chapter.
(b) A court, when placing on probation any person who owes a debt to the state as a consequence of a crime, may set as a condition of probation the payment of the debt or a portion of the debt to the state. The court may also set the schedule or amounts of payments subject to modification based on change of circumstances.
(c) The State Board of Pardons and Paroles shall also have the right to make payment of the debt or a portion of the debt to the state a condition of parole.
(d) When a child is adjudicated for committing a delinquent act in a juvenile court proceeding involving a crime upon which a claim under this chapter can be made, the juvenile court in its discretion may order that the child pay the debt to the state as an adult would have to pay had an adult committed the crime. Any assessments so ordered may be made a condition of probation as provided in Code Section 15-11-601.
(e) Payments authorized or required under this Code section shall be paid into the fund. The board shall coordinate the development of policies and procedures for the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, the Department of Community Supervision, and the Administrative Office of the Courts to assure that restitution programs are administered in an effective manner to increase payments into the fund.
(f) In every case where an individual is serving under active probation supervision and paying a supervision fee, $9.00 per month shall be added to any supervision fee collected by any entity authorized to collect such fees and shall be paid into the fund. This subsection shall apply to probationers supervised by community supervision officers or private probation officers or probation officers pursuant to Article 6 of Chapter 8 of Title 42. The probation supervising entity shall collect and forward the $9.00 fee to the board by the end of each month.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 625,§ 17, eff. 5/3/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 73,§ 5-39, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 551,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2014.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 127,§ 4-20, eff. 1/1/2014.
Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 840, § 4, eff. 5/13/2002.
