# § 27-2-7. Powers of department as to making and entering into agreements relating to hunting license reciprocity

(a) The department is authorized to make and enter into agreements, from time to time, with the proper authorities of the States of Alabama, Florida, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Tennessee whereby a citizen of the State of Georgia who owns farm lands in such adjoining states may purchase a resident hunting license in the state in which his land is situated which will permit said Georgia citizen to hunt on his own land in the adjoining state without purchasing a nonresident hunting license in that state. The department is authorized to reciprocate this courtesy and issue a resident hunting license in Georgia to citizens of such adjoining states who own farm lands in Georgia, permitting such citizens to hunt on their own land in Georgia without purchasing a nonresident hunting/fishing license.
(b) The department is also authorized to enter into agreements, from time to time, with the proper authorities of the States of Alabama, Florida, South Carolina, North Carolina, and Tennessee whereby a valid hunting license issued by the State of Georgia will be accepted and honored, as and in lieu of a hunting license for the respective state so agreeing, for hunting waterfowl only, on the banks and in the waters of the lakes, rivers, and streams lying between the State of Georgia and such adjoining state or partly within the boundaries of both the State of Georgia and the adjoining state. In turn, valid licenses issued by the respective state shall be accepted and honored, as and in lieu of a Georgia hunting license, for hunting waterfowl only, on the banks and in the waters of such lakes, rivers, and streams.
(c) The department is authorized to make and enter into agreements, from time to time, with the proper authorities of the States of Alabama, Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee regarding nonresident hunting/fishing license fees, seasons, and bag limits; provided, however, that such seasons and bag limits for nonresident hunters shall not be less restrictive than those which control Georgia residents; and provided, further, that nonresident license fees in Georgia shall not be less than the amount established in Code Section 27-2-23 for a small game hunting license and for a big game hunting license.
(d) If the commissioner determines that any of the States of Alabama, Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina, and Tennessee does not have an existing reciprocal agreement governing nonresident fishing or small game hunting licenses with the State of Georgia and has a fee for a nonresident fishing or small game hunting license or its equivalent, which substantially differs from the comparable fee which Georgia charges a citizen of that contiguous state, then the commissioner, notwithstanding the fees specified in Code Section 27-2-23, and in order to encourage the reduction of the excessive fee or the entering into of a reciprocal agreement, shall be authorized to adjust the nonresident fishing or small game hunting license fee as applied to citizens of that contiguous state, to an amount equal to the fee a Georgia citizen is required to pay to fish or hunt in that contiguous state.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 624,§ 27, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 167,§ 5, eff. 5/5/2009.
