# § 27-2-22.1. Fox trapping and selling

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to trap and sell live fox without first procuring a commercial trapping license provided for in Code Section 27-2-23. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title to the contrary, live fox may be taken from the wild only during trapping season and may be sold only to licensed commercial fox hunting preserves or licensed commercial fox breeders. Foxes may be held during open trapping season for up to five days until sold but must be sold or dispatched within five days after the close of trapping season. Any person in possession of a live fox must comply with the provisions of Code Section 27-5-6.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to purchase a live fox unless the person selling such game animal has a valid commercial trapping license and unless the person purchasing such animal has a valid license provided for in this Code section.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to own or operate an area utilized for the purpose of running, taking, or hunting penned fox for a fee or other manner of compensation to such owner or operator unless such person has a valid commercial fox hunting preserve license provided for in this subsection and in Code Section 27-2-23. For purposes of this Code section, the term "penned fox" means a fox that has been trapped, purchased, or raised in captivity. The license required by this subsection shall be effective from April 1 through March 31 of the following year. An application for a commercial fox hunting preserve license shall be submitted on a form prescribed by the department. No license shall be issued pursuant to this subsection unless the following conditions are met and each permit shall be conditioned upon the following:
  (1) Fox may be held in holding pens not less than four acres in size or in smaller facilities for the treatment of fox which are injured, diseased, or very young;
  (2) There shall be no restriction on the number of dogs which may be used concurrently in areas of at least 100 acres in size which are enclosed and used for the purpose of running, taking, or hunting penned fox. For enclosed areas of less than 100 acres only one dog may be used for each five acres of area to be utilized for running, taking, or hunting penned fox;
  (3) The density of fox in a running pen may not exceed one animal per ten acres;
  (4) The boundary lines of areas to be utilized for the purpose of running, taking, or hunting penned fox must be posted against trespassing and must be marked by signs indicating such boundary lines, and letters not less than two inches in height shall be used to indicate such boundary lines and that the area is posted against trespassing;
  (5) All facilities to be utilized by the fox hunting preserve shall be maintained in a sanitary condition with adequate food, water, and shelter available at all times for such animals. Fox shall also be vaccinated against canine disease prior to release into an area used for running, taking, or hunting; and
  (6) Records of fox located within the fox hunting preserve and of any known losses of fox shall be maintained and kept current by the owner or operator of such facility. Records shall also be maintained of all fox purchased, including the number of fox purchased, the date of purchase, and the name and address of the seller, for the purpose of inspection by the department.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of propagating or breeding fox for sale, restocking, propagation, or other commercial purposes unless that person has obtained a commercial fox breeder license provided for in this subsection and in Code Section 27-2-23. Such license shall be effective from April 1 through March 31 of the following year. An application for a commercial fox breeder license shall be submitted on a form as prescribed by the department. No license shall be issued pursuant to this subsection unless the following conditions are met and each permit shall be conditioned upon the following:
  (1) All facilities associated with the business of propagating or breeding fox shall be maintained in a sanitary condition with adequate food, water, and shelter available at all times for such animals;
  (2) Records shall be kept of fox purchased by the commercial fox breeder, including the number of animals, the date of purchase, and the name and address of the seller, for the purpose of inspection by the department; and
  (3) Persons engaged in the business of propagating or breeding fox shall be knowledgeable and competent in such business.
(e) It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, take, or possess fox at a commercial fox hunting preserve without first procuring the licenses required under this title; provided, however, nonresidents of this state may procure a nonresident hunting preserve license which shall meet the requirements of this subsection and this title.
(f) It shall be unlawful to receive or possess any fox shipped, transported, or removed from outside of this state unless the jurisdiction from which such fox was transported is pursuant to a permit from the department.
