# § 27-2-3. Effective periods of hunting, fishing, and trapping licenses generally; multiyear licenses

(a) Except as otherwise specifically provided, all hunting, fishing, and trapping licenses, including without limitation commercial fishing and commercial fishing boat licenses issued pursuant to Code Section 27-2-8, shall be effective from April 1 to March 31 of the following year; except that all annual, two-year, or other multiyear hunting, fishing, and hunting and fishing combination licenses issued pursuant to paragraphs (1) through (4) of Code Section 27-2-23 shall be effective through the applicable one-year, two-year, or multiyear anniversary of the date of issuance. If a person possesses a valid annual, two-year, or other multiyear hunting, fishing, or hunting and fishing combination license at the time of sale of one or more annual, two-year, or other multiyear licenses with identical privileges to the valid license, the new license or licenses shall become effective when the original license expires and shall remain valid through the full applicable period. The department may specify the effective dates and term of the following licenses or permits:
  (1) The Georgia waterfowl and migratory bird stamp to meet requirements of Code Section 27-2-20;
  (2) The free Georgia salt water fishing endorsement to meet requirements of Code Section 27-2-20.1; and
  (3) Any permit or requirement authorized by Code Section 27-3-29 regarding harvest recording and reporting.
(b) Multiyear licenses valid for any desired number of years may be purchased through a single transaction for licenses listed in paragraphs (1) through (4) of Code Section 27-2-23. The fee for any such multiyear license shall be equivalent to the lowest cost combination of annual or two-year licenses necessary to form the desired multiyear license period. No resident license shall be valid at the time of hunting or fishing unless the licensee is a resident of this state at such time, except for lifetime licenses.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 22,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 27, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 167,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 27, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 311, § 3, eff. 2/29/2004.
