# § 27-2-23. License, permit, tag, and stamp fees

(9) Any one-day license purchased that has not expired may be extended for up to ten additional consecutive days by payment of additional reduced rate daily fees: (A)Nonresident hunting license: $6.00 per day;(B)Resident big game license: $2.00 per day;(C)Nonresident big game license: $8.00 per day;(D)Nonresident hunting/fishing license: $10.00 per day;(E)Resident hunting/fishing license: $1.00 per day;(F)Nonresident fishing license: $3.50 per day;(G)Resident trout license: $1.00 per day;(H)Nonresident trout license: $2.00 per day;(I)Resident sportsman's license: $3.00 per day; and(J)Nonresident sportsman's license: $20.00 per day.
(10) The board is authorized to provide by rule for a fee not to exceed $19.00 for resident daily, seasonal, or annual use permits, or licenses; a fee of $38.00 for resident two-year use permits; or a fee not to exceed $73.00 for nonresident annual use permits or licenses to hunt and fish on or otherwise use specially designated streams, lakes, public fishing areas, or wildlife management areas.
(11) For wildlife that may be legally taken by commercial fishing gear as authorized in this title or by board rule, the board may designate which species of wildlife or species grouping of wildlife require a commercial fishing species endorsement for a fee shown in subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph (6) of this Code section in addition to the required commercial fishing license. Each species or group of species so designated shall require a separate commercial fishing species endorsement.
(12) The fees for any annual license established in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of paragraph (1) and in paragraph (2), (3), or (4) of this Code section shall be reduced by the amount of the lowest available renewal transaction fee for each renewal transaction made before the expiration date of the then current license or tag. For purposes of this paragraph, the term "renewal transaction" means the renewal of one or more licenses by a licensee during a single telephone call, Internet session, or on-site visit to a store.
(13) After July 1, 2017, the General Assembly shall not increase the cost of any license, permit, tag, or stamp provided for in this Code section by more than 20 percent.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 27, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 321,§ 27, eff. 5/12/2019.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 478,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 22,§ 11, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 456,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 247,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 712,§ 1A, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 167,§ 8, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 92,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 311, § 7A, eff. 2/29/2004.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 311, § 7B, eff. 3/31/2012
