# § 27-2-25.1. Suspension of hunting privileges for negligent hunting; procedures following hunting accidents

(a) The General Assembly has heretofore found and declared that hunting is a privilege to be exercised only in accordance with the law granting such privilege. The General Assembly now specifically finds and declares that while the act of hunting is an enjoyable and beneficial form of recreation, it can be dangerous not only to the hunter himself but also to other persons if due care is not exercised. Therefore, the General Assembly declares that all persons who refuse or fail to exercise such due care may have their hunting privileges suspended as provided in this Code section.
(b) Any person engaged in the act of hunting who by the use of a weapon kills or injures another person or persons, whether or not such other person or persons are likewise engaged in the act of hunting, shall notify the department or any appropriate law enforcement officer who shall then notify the department immediately after such occurrence. Any person who fails so to notify the department or such law enforcement officer shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(c) Upon notification of such a death or injury, whether by the hunter or by some other person, the department shall immediately initiate an investigation of such incident and submit a report to the commissioner. If the commissioner determines culpable negligence on the part of the person causing the death or injury and that such negligence was the proximate cause of such death or injury, the commissioner may suspend that person's hunting privileges for a specified period of time not to exceed ten years. Any such determination to suspend shall be subject to review as provided for in this Code section. When the commissioner shall decide to suspend said person's hunting privileges, the commissioner must notify such person of said suspension and of his right to a hearing to contest the commissioner's determination. The notification from the commissioner to the person whose license is being suspended shall be by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery with return receipt requested; or, in lieu thereof, notice may be given by personal service upon such person. Upon such notice, any such hunting privileges shall be revoked by such notice and such person shall surrender his or her hunting license, if any, to the department within ten days of such notification. For the purposes of this article, notice given by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery with return receipt requested mailed to the person's last known address shall be prima-facie evidence that such person received the required notice.
(d) The person so notified may request an administrative hearing before an administrative law judge appointed by the board within 30 days of receipt of the notice. If no hearing is requested within the 30 day period, the right to a hearing shall have been waived and the hunting privileges of the person shall stand suspended as prescribed by the commissioner's notice. If, following the administrative hearing, there is a determination that such person was negligent and that such negligence was the proximate cause of the death or injury, the hunting privileges of such person may be suspended for a period of up to ten years. The period of time that such privileges are suspended shall be commensurate with the degree of negligence and the severity of the injury. If there is a determination of no negligence or that the negligence was not the proximate cause of the death or injury, the person's hunting privileges shall be restored. The provisions of Code Section 27-2-27 shall not be applicable to a suspension under this Code section.
(e) Any person whose hunting privileges have been suspended under this Code section and who engages in the act of hunting during such period of suspension shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature and shall be punished by a fine of not more than $5,000.00 or by imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or both. Any person whose hunting privileges have been suspended under this Code section shall complete a course of instruction in competency and safety in hunting and in the handling of weapons provided for in Code Section 27-2-5 prior to any subsequent exercise of his hunting privileges.
(f) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "License" means any and all licenses, permits, or stamps as required by law for hunting in this state.
  (2) "Hunting privileges" means the exercise of the privilege of hunting whether such privilege is bestowed by license or otherwise.
  (3) "Suspend" means the suspension or revocation of any existing license or hunting privileges and the suspension or revocation of the privilege of obtaining any new license or hunting privileges.
(g) The hearing before an administrative law judge and any judicial review shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50 and applicable rules and regulations of the board.
(h) The proceedings provided for by this Code section shall be in addition to and not in lieu of any civil or criminal action or actions provided for by law and the final decision of this proceeding shall not constitute res judicata as to any such civil or criminal action or actions and shall not be admissible as evidence in any such civil or criminal action or actions.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 939, § 2, eff. 7/1/2002.
