# § 27-2-6. Trout license, Georgia waterfowl and migratory bird stamp, big game license, and alligator harvest permit

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person who has attained the age of 16 years to fish for or possess mountain trout or to fish in any waters designated as trout waters or trout streams pursuant to Code Section 27-4-51 unless such person has in his or her possession a trout license in addition to his or her fishing license.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person who has attained the age of 16 years to hunt or possess big game unless such person has in his or her possession a big game license in addition to the required hunting license; provided, however, that all nonresidents, regardless of age, must possess a nonresident hunting/fishing license along with any harvest records required by law or regulation to hunt big game in this state.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person who has attained the age of 16 years to hunt migratory game birds unless such person has in his or her possession a Georgia waterfowl and migratory bird stamp in addition to the required hunting license; provided, however, that a Georgia waterfowl and migratory bird stamp or a landowner Georgia waterfowl and migratory bird stamp shall be required for any resident of this state to hunt migratory birds on premises owned by him or her or his or her immediate family.
(d) It shall be unlawful for any person who has attained the age of 16 years to hunt alligators unless such person has in his or her possession a valid hunting license. A resident or nonresident alligator harvest permit shall be required to harvest an alligator. Such permit shall be free to lifetime license holders if selected as part of any department quota or lottery.
(e) No resident of this state shall be required to obtain a trout license or big game license to hunt, fish, or trap on premises owned by him or her or his or her immediate family.
(f) Any visitor to a state park, whether a resident or nonresident of Georgia, shall not be required to purchase a trout license when fishing in impounded waters on lands owned or leased by the department.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 770,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 22,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 167,§ 4, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 311, § 6, eff. 7/1/2003.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 307.
