# § 27-2-17. Falconry permits; duties, permitted acts, and prohibitions pertaining to permit holders

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to trap, take, transport, or possess raptors for falconry purposes unless such person possesses, in addition to any licenses and permits otherwise required by this title, a valid falconry permit as provided in Code Section 27-2-23.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any nonresident to trap, take, or attempt to trap or take a raptor from the wild in this state or to transport or possess any raptor in this state unless such nonresident possesses:
  (1) A valid falconry license or permit issued by his or her state, tribe, or territory, provided that such state, tribe, or territory has been certified by the United States Fish and Wildlife Service as compliant with applicable federal falconry law; and
  (2) All licenses and permits otherwise required by this title.
(c) Application for a falconry permit shall be made on forms obtained from the department.
(d) No falconry permit shall be issued until the applicant's raptor housing facilities and equipment have been inspected and certified by the department.
(e) The department shall have the right, during reasonable times, to enter upon the premises of persons subject to this Code section to inspect and certify compliance with federal and state standards.
(f) It shall be lawful for a falconer who is in full compliance with this Code section to take small game with raptors, so long as such falconer observes all other laws regulating the taking of small game.
(g) The board shall promulgate rules and regulations necessary to carry out the purposes of this Code section and to ensure compliance with federal law. If the commissioner certifies that any rule is necessary for compliance with federal law, the board may adopt such rule without complying with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 264,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 167,§ 6, eff. 5/5/2009.
