# § 27-2-4.3. Special hunting privileges for young people with a terminal illness

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "terminal illness" means an incurable or irreversible condition with a corresponding life expectancy that does not exceed 12 months.
(b) The commissioner is authorized to issue special authorization to hunt big game or alligators to any person not older than 21 years of age who has been diagnosed with a terminal illness by a doctor of medicine currently licensed to practice either by the Georgia Composite Medical Board or the State Board of Examiners in Osteopathy. Such special authorization may include waiving legal weapons requirements, antler restrictions, quota limitations, or hunter education requirements as necessary to facilitate special situations for persons with a terminal illness. The commissioner may impose any terms and conditions deemed necessary to implement the special authorization. Such authorization shall be for only one hunting season.
(c) The commissioner may prepare an application to be used by persons requesting special authorization and may require signed documentation from a doctor of medicine currently licensed to practice either by the Georgia Composite Medical Board or the State Board of Examiners in Osteopathy verifying that an applicant has a terminal illness.
(d) A person who receives special authorization to hunt under this Code section shall conduct all hunting under the direct supervision of a licensed adult hunter and abide by the terms and conditions of the special authorization issued by the commissioner.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 706,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
