# § 27-2-1. Hunting, trapping, or fishing without license or permit generally; nonresidents

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt, fish, trap, or possess any wildlife or feral hog without first procuring all of the licenses, stamps, or permits required or authorized under this title.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any resident of this state who has attained the age of 16 years to hunt, fish in the waters of this state, or trap without a valid hunting license, fishing license, or trapping license, respectively, as provided in Code Section 27-2-23, except on premises owned by him or her or his or her immediate family; provided, however, that the resident owner of any vessel with a valid registration in accordance with Code Section 52-7-5 shall have, as part of the registration fee for such vessel, a paid one-day resident hunting and fishing license valid only on the anniversary of such owner's date of birth in accordance with the requirements of this title and as otherwise specified by the department. It shall be unlawful for any resident of this state to hunt, fish, or trap in this state without carrying such license upon his or her person, except on premises owned by him or her or his or her immediate family and except when otherwise specifically directed by authorized personnel of the department.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person not a resident of Georgia who has attained the age of 16 years to hunt, fish in the waters of this state, or trap in this state without a valid nonresident hunting, fishing, or trapping license, respectively, as provided in Code Section 27-2-23, except as otherwise specifically provided by law and interstate agreements. It shall be unlawful for any nonresident to hunt, fish in the waters of this state, or trap without carrying such license on his or her person, unless otherwise specifically directed by authorized personnel of the department.
(d) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section, no license shall be required to fish with permission of the owner from noncommercial premises not open to the public, including docks and foreshores of such premises, or at a facility or on a charter boat licensed pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 27-2-23.2.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 22,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 247,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2013.
