# § 27-2-13.1. Film production wildlife permits; release

(a)
  (1) For purposes of this subsection, the term "film production" means the creation of film, video, or digital projects in this state, including, but not limited to, the creation of feature films, documentaries, series, pilots, movies for television, advertisements, music videos, and interactive entertainment.
  (2) It shall be unlawful for any person to keep, hold, or possess any wildlife in captivity for film production purposes or to otherwise provide wildlife for use in film production without first procuring a film production wildlife permit as provided in Code Section 27-2-23. No wildlife may be possessed by the applicant prior to a film production wildlife permit being granted by the department, unless such wildlife was legally possessed by the applicant prior to the grant of the permit. The department may impose conditions on such permit requiring adequate sanitation facilities, housing, and feed for the animals and insuring the safety of the public in accordance with regulations promulgated by the board.
  (3) A permit issued pursuant to this subsection shall authorize the permit holder to transport, possess, or transfer wildlife for any permitted purpose related to film production; provided, however, that possession of a permit shall not exempt the holder from any other local, state, or federal requirements.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person holding any wildlife in captivity pursuant to a permit issued in accordance with this Code section to release the wildlife from captivity or to house or maintain the wildlife in such a manner as to pose a reasonable possibility that the wildlife may be released accidentally or escape from captivity.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 456,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2016.
