# § 27-2-28. Refusing inspection of identification or license; making false statements in obtaining license or permit; counterfeiting or alteration; unlawful collection of funds

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person who is required to have on his person any license, permit, or stamp issued under this title to refuse the inspection of such license, permit, or stamp upon demand by a game warden or deputy game warden. It shall also be unlawful for any such person, upon demand by a game warden or deputy game warden, to refuse to provide a driver's license or equally reliable identification of such person and his current residence.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to make any false statement as to any fact which is required as a prerequisite to the issuance of a license or permit; and any license or permit obtained in violation of this Code section is void. Any license agent may require the applicant for a license or permit to show proof of any statement or facts required for issuance of any license or permit.
(c) It shall be unlawful for any person to counterfeit, change, or alter or to attempt to counterfeit, change, or alter any license or permit issued pursuant to this title. It shall be unlawful for any person, other than a license agent authorized by the department or authorized personnel of the department, to collect any funds for any license or permit issued pursuant to this title or to charge a fee to obtain any such license or permit.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 264,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 22,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2017.
