# § 27-2-12. Scientific collecting permits

(a) It shall be unlawful for any person to take, possess, or transport any of the wildlife of this state, or the plumage, skin, or body thereof, or the nests or eggs of the same for scientific purposes without obtaining a scientific collecting permit and complying with this Code section.
(b) Application for a scientific collecting permit must be made on forms obtained from the department and must be accompanied by the permit fee as provided in Code Section 27-2-23 and a project proposal containing the justification for and an outline of the proposed collecting activities.
(c) The department shall issue such a permit only if it has determined that the proposed collecting activities are in the best interest of the wildlife resources. In making such a determination, the department shall consider the following:
  (1) Whether there is a need for the information or data;
  (2) Whether the proposed collecting activities would duplicate sound research previously accomplished;
  (3) Whether there would be benefit to the species or population being studied;
  (4) Whether the project would be detrimental to the particular wildlife population or associated populations or to the habitat of the wildlife; and
  (5) Whether the project is of reasonably sound design.
(d) Based on the conditions outlined in subsection (c) of this Code section, such permit may contain conditions on the number and type of wildlife to be collected, the dates and locations of collecting, and the type of gear which may be used. Notwithstanding any other provision of this title to the contrary, the department may authorize the use of baskets, nets, seines, traps, chemicals, and electrical devices for purposes of collecting pursuant to this Code section.
(e) Persons issued a scientific collecting permit shall treat all wildlife humanely and shall notify the department at least three days in advance of the date of collecting. Such persons shall also submit to the department reports detailing the information or data obtained from such collecting activities. The reports shall be submitted by the following March 31 or within 60 days after collecting, whichever is later.
(f) Permits may be denied, revoked, or not renewed in accordance with the procedures outlined in Code Section 27-2-25 for the reasons outlined in said Code section or for any of the following reasons:
  (1) Violation of specific conditions listed on the permit;
  (2) Excessive collection of wildlife;
  (3) Submitting false information;
  (4) Failure to maintain records;
  (5) Failure to notify the department within three days of collecting activities;
  (6) Inhumane treatment of wildlife; or
  (7) Any other violation of this Code section or the regulations promulgated pursuant thereto.
