# § 27-2-4.5. Outdoor mentoring program

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Outdoor mentee" means any resident to whom the department has never issued both a hunting and fishing license, or an outdoor passport, under this chapter.
  (2) "Outdoor mentor" means any individual who is 18 years of age or older and who has a current license that allows hunting and fishing pursuant to this chapter.
  (3) "Outdoor passport" means a reduced cost license issued by the department which licenses or permits noncommercial hunting and fishing privileges across all categories of hunting and fishing.
(b) The General Assembly finds that an outdoor mentor program can spark interest in hunting and fishing as lifelong activities; provide safe, memorable, and positive introductions for first-time hunting and fishing experiences; and promote safe and ethical hunting and fishing practices.
(c) The department shall establish and maintain an outdoor mentor program that enables experienced hunters and fishers to mentor new hunters and fishers in safe, ethical, and responsible hunting and fishing practices. In furtherance of such outdoor mentor program, the department:
  (1) Shall establish a mentor education course that provides instruction to outdoor mentors, the completion of which shall be required before he or she may mentor an outdoor mentee under the program;
  (2) Shall work with partners to develop incentives for outdoor mentors and may include reduced license fees for an outdoor mentor participating in the program;
  (3) Shall issue outdoor mentees participating in the program an outdoor passport which shall expire one year after issuance; and
  (4) Shall prepare necessary applications and impose any further criteria and terms and conditions not inconsistent with this Code section for implementation of the program.

## History

Added by 2018 Ga. Laws 478,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
