# § 33-28-3. Standard nonforfeiture provisions for individual deferred annuities

(a) This Code section shall be known and may be cited as the "Standard Nonforfeiture Law for Individual Deferred Annuities."
(b) This Code section shall not apply to any reinsurance, group annuity purchased under a retirement plan or plan of deferred compensation established or maintained by an employer, including a partnership or sole proprietorship, or by an employee organization, or by both, other than a plan providing individual retirement accounts or individual retirement annuities under Section 408 of the Internal Revenue Code, premium deposit fund, variable annuity, immediate annuity, any deferred annuity contract after annuity payments have commenced, or reversionary annuity, nor to any contract which shall be delivered outside this state through an agent or other representative of the company issuing the contract.
(c) No contract of annuity, except as stated in subsection (b) of this Code section, shall be delivered or issued for delivery in this state unless it contains in substance the following provisions or corresponding provisions which in the opinion of the Commissioner are at least as favorable to the contract holder upon cessation of payment of considerations under the contract:
  (1) That upon cessation of payment of considerations under a contract, the company shall grant a paid-up annuity benefit on a plan stipulated in such contract of such value as is specified in subsections (e) through (h) and (j) of this Code section;
  (2) If a contract provides for a lump sum settlement at maturity or at any other time, that upon surrender of such contract at or prior to the commencement of any annuity payments, the company shall pay in lieu of any paid-up annuity benefit a cash surrender benefit of such amount as is specified in subsections (e) through (h) and (j) of this Code section and that interest shall be payable on such amount in the same manner, at the same rate, and subject to the same conditions as provided by Code Section 33-25-10 for payment of interest on proceeds or payments under an individual policy of life insurance. Subject to the provisions of this paragraph, the company shall reserve the right to defer the payment of the cash surrender benefit for a period of six months after demand for the benefit with surrender of the contract. The provisions of this paragraph requiring the payment of interest shall not apply to variable contracts which provide for annuity benefits which may vary according to the investment experience of any separate account or accounts maintained by the company as to such contract;
  (3) A statement of the mortality table, if any, and interest rates used in calculating any minimum paid-up annuity, cash surrender, or death benefits that are guaranteed under the contract together with sufficient information to determine the amounts of the benefits;
  (4) A statement that any paid-up annuity, cash surrender, or death benefits that may be available under the contract are not less than the minimum benefits required by any statute of the state in which such contract is delivered and an explanation of the manner in which the benefits are altered by the existence of any additional amounts credited by the company to such contract, any indebtedness to the company on such contract, or any prior withdrawals from or partial surrenders of such contract; and
  (5) Notwithstanding the requirements of this subsection, any deferred annuity contract may provide that if no considerations have been received under a contract for a period of two full years and the portion of the paid-up annuity benefit at maturity on the plan stipulated in such contract arising from considerations paid prior to such period would be less than $20.00 monthly, the company may at its option terminate such contract by payment in cash of the then present value of the portion of the paid-up annuity benefit, calculated on the basis of the mortality table, if any, and interest rate specified in the contract for determining the paid-up annuity benefit, and by the payment shall be relieved of any further obligation under such contract.
(d) The minimum values as specified in subsections (e) through (h) and (j) of this Code section of any paid-up annuity, cash surrender, or death benefits available under an annuity contract shall be based upon minimum nonforfeiture amounts as defined by the Commissioner by rule and regulation based upon interest rates set by the Commissioner to reflect current and prevailing economic and financial conditions; provided, however, that such interest rates shall not be less than 0.15 percent per annum nor more than 3 percent per annum.
(e) Any paid-up annuity benefit available under a contract shall be such that its present value on the date annuity payments are to commence is at least equal to the minimum nonforfeiture amount on that date. The present value shall be computed using the mortality table, if any, and the interest rate specified in the contract for determining the minimum paid-up annuity benefits guaranteed in the contract.
(f) For contracts which provide cash surrender benefits, such cash surrender benefits available prior to maturity shall not be less than the present value as of the date of surrender of that portion of the maturity value of the paid-up annuity benefit which would be provided under the contract at maturity arising from considerations paid prior to the time of cash surrender reduced by the amount appropriate to reflect any prior withdrawals from or partial surrenders of such contract, such present value being calculated on the basis of an interest rate not more than 1 percent higher than the interest rate specified in such contract for accumulating the net considerations to determine such maturity value, decreased by the amount of any indebtedness to the company on such contract, including interest due and accrued, and increased by any existing additional amounts credited by the company to such contract. In no event shall any cash surrender benefit be less than the minimum nonforfeiture amount at that time. The death benefit under such contracts shall be at least equal to the cash surrender benefit.
(g) For contracts which do not provide cash surrender benefits, the present value of any paid-up annuity benefit available as a nonforfeiture option at any time prior to maturity shall not be less than the present value of that portion of the maturity value of the paid-up annuity benefit provided under the contract arising from considerations paid prior to the time the contract is surrendered in exchange for, or changed to, a deferred paid-up annuity, such present value being calculated for the period prior to the maturity date on the basis of the interest rate specified in such contract for accumulating the net considerations to determine the maturity value and increased by any existing additional amounts credited by the company to such contract. For contracts which do not provide any death benefits prior to the commencement of any annuity payments, the present values shall be calculated on the basis of the interest rate and the mortality table specified in the contract for determining the maturity value of the paid-up annuity benefit. However, in no event shall the present value of a paid-up annuity benefit be less than the minimum nonforfeiture amount at that time.
(h) For the purpose of determining the benefits calculated under subsections (f) and (g) of this Code section, in the case of annuity contracts under which an election may be made to have annuity payments commence at optional maturity dates, the maturity date shall be deemed to be the latest date for which election shall be permitted by the contract but shall not be deemed to be later than the anniversary of the contract next following the annuitant's seventieth birthday or the tenth anniversary of the contract, whichever is later.
(i) Any contract which does not provide cash surrender benefits or does not provide death benefits at least equal to the minimum nonforfeiture amount prior to the commencement of any annuity payments shall include a statement in a prominent place in the contract that such benefits are not provided.
(j) Any paid-up annuity, cash surrender, or death benefits available at any time, other than on the contract anniversary under any contract with fixed, scheduled considerations, shall be calculated with allowance for the lapse of time and the payment of any scheduled considerations beyond the beginning of the contract year in which cessation of payment of considerations under the contract occurs.
(k) For any contract which provides, within the same contract by rider or supplemental contract provision, both annuity benefits and life insurance benefits that are in excess of the greater of cash surrender benefits or a return of the gross considerations with interest, the minimum nonforfeiture benefits shall be equal to the sum of the minimum nonforfeiture benefits for the annuity portion and the minimum nonforfeiture benefits, if any, for the life insurance portion computed as if each portion were a separate contract. Notwithstanding subsections (e) through (h) and (j) of this Code section, additional benefits payable in the event of total and permanent disability as reversionary annuity or deferred reversionary annuity benefits or as other policy benefits additional to life insurance, endowment, and annuity benefits, and considerations for all such additional benefits shall be disregarded in ascertaining the minimum nonforfeiture amounts, paid-up annuity, cash surrender, and death benefits that may be required by this Code section. The inclusion of such additional benefits shall not be required in any paid-up benefits, unless such additional benefits separately would require minimum nonforfeiture amounts, paid-up annuity, cash surrender, and death benefits.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 756,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022, app. to all applicable contracts issued, delivered, issued for delivery, or renewed in this state on or after 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 33, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 84, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 540, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 233, § 1, eff. 6/3/2003.
