# § 3-5-5. Retail sale of kegs; required labeling; removal of labels

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Keg" means any brewery-sealed container or barrel containing, by liquid volume, more than two gallons of malt beverage.
  (2) "Retail dealer," "retail licensee," or "licensee" means a person holding either a retail dealer license, a permit issued by the commissioner authorizing the sale of alcoholic beverages for consumption only on the premises for a period not to exceed one day, or a beverage alcohol caterer license.
(b) No person licensed under this chapter shall sell malt beverages at retail by the keg except as provided in subsections (c), (d), and (e) of this Code section. The commissioner may take punitive action against violators, up to and including revocation of the state retail dealer's license of any licensed retail dealer who fails to comply with this Code section. The undertaking of any punitive action allowed under this Code section shall not prohibit criminal prosecution for sale to underage persons.
(c) Each retail licensee selling kegs containing malt beverages for consumption off licensed premises shall require each keg purchaser to present a Georgia driver's license or other proper identification at the time of purchase. The licensee shall record for each keg sale: the date of sale; the size of keg; the keg identification number; the amount of container deposit; the name; address; date of birth of the purchaser; and the form of identification presented by such purchaser. The purchaser shall sign a statement at the time of purchase attesting to the accuracy of the purchaser's name and address, the location where the contents of the keg will be consumed, and acknowledging that a violation of Code Section 3-3-23, as it relates to furnishing alcoholic beverages to persons under the age of 21 years, may result in civil liability, criminal prosecution, or both. The licensee shall retain the identification form and purchaser's signed statement attesting to the accuracy of the purchaser's name and address and acknowledging that a violation of Code Section 3-3-23, as it relates to furnishing alcoholic beverages to persons under the age of 21 years, may result in civil liability, criminal prosecution, or both, for a minimum of six months following the sale of the keg.
(d) Each keg sold at retail for consumption off licensed premises shall be labeled with the name and address of the retail licensee, the keg identification number, and the state alcohol license number of the business. The Department of Revenue will prescribe the form of registration label or tag to be used for this purpose. The registration label or tag shall be supplied by the Department of Revenue without fee and securely affixed to the keg by the licensee making the sale. In addition to the label or tag, the Department of Revenue shall provide guidelines to the licensee on the information to be recorded on the identification form required under subsection (c) of this Code section.
(e) The licensee shall record the date of return of the keg on the identification form required under subsection (c) of this Code section. If there is no label or tag affixed to the keg or if the identification number is not legible, the licensee shall indicate this fact on the identification form required under subsection (c) of this Code section. The licensee shall not refund a deposit for a keg that is returned without the required label or tag and identification number intact and legible.
(f) The removal of the required label shall be unlawful until such time that it is lawfully returned to the retailer by the purchaser. Possession of a keg without the required label and identification number shall be unlawful and subject to penalty pursuant to Code Section 3-3-9.

## History

Added by 2001 Ga. Laws 349, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
