# § 29-5-60. Verified return required annually; change of reporting period; production of documents; failure to file return

(a) Each year, within 60 days of the anniversary date of qualification, every conservator shall file with the court a verified return consisting of a statement of the receipts and expenditures of the conservatorship during the year preceding the anniversary date of qualification, an updated inventory consisting of a statement of the assets and liabilities of the estate as of the anniversary date of qualification, an updated plan for managing, expending, and distributing the ward's property, a note or memorandum of any other fact necessary to show the true condition of the estate, and a statement of the current amount of the bond. The conservator shall mail a copy of the return by first-class mail to the surety on the conservator's bond, the ward, and the ward's guardian, if any.
(b) Upon petition of the conservator or upon the court's own motion, the court may change the reporting period from the year immediately preceding the anniversary date of qualification to the year immediately preceding a date ordered by the court. In lieu of changing the reporting date, the court is authorized to accept a return for filing even if the return does not cover the appropriate reporting period; however, such acceptance shall not change the reporting period established by either the anniversary date of qualification or a subsequent order of the court, unless the court also enters an order changing the reporting date.
(c) The court shall carefully examine each return of a conservator and, upon petition of any interested person or upon the court's own motion, may require the conservator to produce the original documents that support the return. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, if no objection is filed within 30 days of the time the return is filed, the court shall record the return within 60 days of its filing. The return shall be kept on file in the court. The recorded return shall be prima-facie evidence of its correctness. If there is an objection to the return or if the court on its own motion determines that the conservator may have wasted the property of the ward or failed in any manner to comply with applicable law, the court shall hold a hearing or take such other action as the court deems appropriate.
(d) The court shall keep a docket of conservators liable to file returns. Upon the failure of any conservator to file any return by the time frame required by law, the court shall cite the conservator to appear and show reason for the delay. A conservator who fails to file an annual return as required by law shall forfeit all commissions and other compensation for the year within which no return is filed unless otherwise ordered by the court. A willful and continued failure to file a return shall be good cause for removal.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
