# § 29-5-72. Termination of conservatorship; required evidence to support; burden of proof; death of ward

(a) Upon the petition of any interested person, including the ward, or upon the court's own motion, and upon a proper showing that the need for a conservatorship has ended, the court may terminate the conservatorship and restore all personal and property rights to the ward. Except for good cause shown, the court shall order that notice of the petition be given, in whatever form the court deems appropriate, to the ward, the conservator, the ward's legal counsel, and the ward's guardian, if any. The court shall appoint legal counsel for the ward and may, in its discretion, appoint a guardian ad litem.
(b) A petition for termination must be supported either by the affidavits of two persons who have knowledge of the ward, one of whom may be the petitioner, or of a physician licensed to practice medicine under Chapter 34 of Title 43, a psychologist licensed to practice under Chapter 39 of Title 43, or a licensed clinical social worker, setting forth the supporting facts and determinations. If, after reviewing the petition and the affidavits, the court determines that there is no probable cause to believe that the conservatorship should be terminated, the court shall dismiss the petition. If the petition is not dismissed, the court shall order that an evaluation be conducted in accordance with the provisions of subsection (d) of Code Section 29-5-11. If, after reviewing the evaluation report, the court finds that there is no probable cause to believe that the conservatorship should be terminated, the court shall dismiss the petition. If the petition is not dismissed, the court shall schedule a hearing with such notice as the court deems appropriate.
(c) In any proceeding under this Code section the burden is on the petitioner to show by a preponderance of the evidence that there is no longer a need for the conservatorship.
(d) No petition for termination of a conservatorship shall be allowed by the court within two years after the denial or dismissal on the merits of a petition for termination of the conservatorship unless the petitioner shows a significant change in the condition or circumstances of the ward.
(e) The death of the ward automatically terminates the conservatorship except for purposes of the final settlement of the petition for letters of discharge, as provided in Code Section 29-5-81.
(f) Upon termination of the conservatorship, the conservator shall deliver any money or property of the ward to the former ward or, if the ward is deceased, to the ward's personal representative.
(g) When a ward for whom the county administrator or county guardian has been previously appointed as conservator dies intestate, the conservator shall proceed to distribute the ward's estate in the same manner as if the conservator had been appointed administrator of the estate. The sureties on the conservator's bond shall be responsible for the conservator's faithful administration and distribution of the estate.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 766,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 29, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
