# § 29-5-90. Resignation of conservator; requirement of petition; alternative conservator; notice to interested individuals; order of appointment of successor conservator

(a) A conservator or the duly authorized guardian, conservator, or attorney in fact of a conservator, acting on behalf of the conservator, may resign upon petition to the court showing to the satisfaction of the court that:
  (1) The conservator is unable to continue serving due to age, illness, infirmity, or other good cause;
  (2) Greater burdens have devolved upon the office of conservator than those that were originally contemplated or should have been contemplated when the conservator was qualified and the additional burdens work a hardship upon the conservator;
  (3) Disagreement exists between the ward and the conservator or between the guardian and the conservator in respect of the conservator's management of the ward's property, which disagreement and conflict appear to be detrimental to the ward;
  (4) The resignation of the conservator will result in or permit substantial financial benefit to the ward; or
  (5) The resignation would not be disadvantageous to the ward.
(b) The petition for resignation shall include the name of a suitable person who is willing to accept the conservatorship.
(c) The court shall appoint legal counsel for the ward and personal service of the petition for resignation shall be made upon the ward and the ward's legal counsel. Service shall be made by first-class mail to the guardian of the ward, if any, the surety on the conservator's bond, and to the following persons whose whereabouts are known and who must be persons other than the resigning conservator or the proposed successor conservator:
  (1) The spouse of the ward; and
  (2) All adult children of the ward; or
  (3) If there is no adult child, then at least two adults in the following order of priority:
    (A) Lineal descendants of the ward;
    (B) Parents and siblings of the ward; and
    (C) Friends of the ward.
(d) If, after such hearing as the court deems appropriate, the court is satisfied that the petition for the resignation of the conservator and the appointment of the successor conservator should be granted, the court shall enter an order appointing the successor conservator in accordance with the provisions of Code Section 29-5-101 and shall accept the resignation, subject to the resigning conservator turning over to the successor conservator all property of the ward held by the conservator.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 29, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
