# § 29-5-10. Petition for appointment of conservator; requirements of petition

(a) Any interested person, including the proposed ward, may file a petition for the appointment of a conservator. Such petition shall be filed in the court of the county in which:
  (1) The proposed ward is domiciled;
  (2) The proposed ward is found; provided, however, that if the court of the county where the proposed ward is found determines that the proposed ward was removed to such county solely for the purposes of filing a petition for the appointment of a conservator and that such court acquired jurisdiction to appoint a conservator because of unjustifiable conduct, such court may take any action authorized by Code Section 29-11-16; or
  (3) Jurisdiction is otherwise proper under Code Section 29-11-12.
(b) The petition for appointment of a conservator shall set forth:
  (1) A statement of the facts upon which the court's jurisdiction is based;
  (2) The name, address, and county of domicile of the proposed ward, if known;
  (3) The name, address, and county of domicile of the petitioner or petitioners and the petitioner's relationship to the proposed ward, if any, and, if different from the petitioner, the name, address, and county of domicile of the person nominated by the petitioner to serve as conservator and that person's relationship to the proposed ward, if any;
  (4) A statement of the reasons the conservatorship is sought, including the facts which support the claim of the need for a conservator;
  (5) Any foreseeable limitations on the conservatorship;
  (6) Whether, to the petitioner's knowledge, there exists any power of attorney, trust, or other instrument that deals with the management of the property of the proposed ward in the event of incapacity and the name and address of any fiduciary or agent named in the instrument;
  (7) A description of all known assets, income, other sources of funds, liabilities, and expenses of the proposed ward;
  (8) The names and addresses of the following whose whereabouts are known:
    (A) The spouse of the proposed ward; and
    (B) All children of the proposed ward; or
    (C) If there are no adult children, then at least two adults in the following order of priority:
      (i) Lineal descendants of the proposed ward;
      (ii) Parents and siblings of the proposed ward; and
      (iii) Friends of the proposed ward;
  (9) If known, the name and address of any person nominated to serve as conservator by the proposed ward, as described in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of Code Section 29-5-3;
  (10) If known, the name and address of any person nominated to serve as conservator by the proposed ward's spouse, adult child, or parent, as described in paragraphs (2) through (4) of subsection (b) of Code Section 29-5-3;
  (11) The name and address of any person nominated to serve as conservator by the petitioner;
  (12) Whether any nominated conservator has consented or will consent to serve as conservator;
  (13) If known, whether any nominated conservator is an owner, operator, or employee of a long-term care or other caregiving institution or facility at which the proposed ward is receiving care, and, if so, whether the nominated conservator is related to the proposed ward by blood, marriage, or adoption;
  (14) Whether an emergency conservator has been appointed for the proposed ward or a petition for the appointment of an emergency conservator has been filed or is being filed;
  (15) If known, a disclosure of any ownership or other financial interest that would cause any nominated conservator to have a conflict of interest with the proposed ward;
  (16) A specific listing of any additional powers, as described in subsections (b) and (c) of Code Section 29-5-23, that are requested by the conservator and a statement of the circumstances which would justify the granting of additional powers;
  (17) Whether a guardian or conservator has been appointed in another state or whether a petition for the appointment of a guardian or conservator is pending in another state;
  (18) That to petitioner's knowledge, there has been no petition for conservatorship denied or dismissed within two years by any court of this state or, if so, that there has been a significant change in the condition or circumstances of the individual, as shown by the accompanying affidavits or evaluation;
  (19) Any state in which the proposed ward was physically present, including any period of temporary absence, for at least six consecutive months immediately before the filing of the petition or ending within the six months prior to the filing of the petition; and
  (20) The reason for any omission in the petition for appointment of conservator in the event full particulars are lacking.
(c)
  (1) The petition shall be sworn to by two or more petitioners or shall be supported by an affidavit of a physician licensed to practice medicine under Chapter 34 of Title 43, a psychologist licensed to practice under Chapter 39 of Title 43, or a licensed clinical social worker or, if the proposed ward is a patient in any federal medical facility in which such a physician, psychologist, or licensed clinical social worker is not available, a physician, psychologist, or licensed clinical social worker authorized to practice in that facility.
  (2) Any affidavit shall be based on personal knowledge and shall state that the affiant has examined the proposed ward within 15 days prior to the filing of the petition and that, based upon the examination, the proposed ward was determined to lack sufficient capacity to make or communicate significant, responsible decisions concerning the management of the proposed ward's property.
  (3) In addition to stating the facts that support the claim of the need for a conservator, the affidavit shall state the foreseeable duration of the conservatorship and may set forth the affiant's opinion as to any other limitations on the conservatorship.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 29, eff. 5/2/2022.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 233,§ 14, eff. 1/1/2020.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 285,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2013.
Former § 29-5-10 repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
Repealed by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
