# § 29-5-53. Compensation from corporation or other business entity

(a) Any conservator who is a domiciliary of this state may receive compensation for services, as specified in this subsection, from a corporation or other business enterprise where the estate of the ward owns an interest in the corporation or other business enterprise, provided that:
  (1) The services furnished by the conservator to the corporation or other business enterprise are of a managerial, executive, or business advisory nature;
  (2) The compensation received for the services is reasonable; and
  (3) The services are performed and the conservator is paid pursuant to a contract executed by the conservator and the corporation or business enterprise, which contract is approved by a majority of those members of the board of directors or other similar governing authority of the corporation or business enterprise who are not officers or employees of the conservator and who are not related to the conservator and provided the contract is approved by the court of the county which has jurisdiction over the conservatorship.
(b) Any conservator receiving compensation from a corporation or other business enterprise for services to it as described in subsection (a) of this Code section shall not receive extra compensation in respect to such services as provided in Code Section 29-5-52; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall prohibit the receipt by the conservator of extra compensation for services rendered in respect to other assets or matters involving the estate.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall prohibit the receipt by a conservator of normal commissions and compensation for the usual services performed by a conservator pursuant to law.
(d) The purpose of this Code section is to enable additional compensation to be paid to a conservator for business management and advisory services to corporations and business enterprises pursuant to a contract without the necessity of petitioning for extra compensation pursuant to Code Section 29-5-52.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
