# § 45-12-85. Examination and investigation of periodic work programs and requests for allotment of funds

(a) The Governor shall examine the periodic work programs and shall make or cause to have made such further investigations by the Office of Planning and Budget, with such hearings before the Governor as he or she deems advisable, and shall direct changes in such provisions of the periodic work program as the Governor finds do not conform to the budget approved by the General Assembly.
(b) The Governor through the Office of Planning and Budget shall seek to effect economy, efficiency, decentralization of state government, and sound fiscal management in reviewing budget allotment requests and may make such changes to the budget allotment requests to meet these goals and objectives and which are consistent with and subject to the method and provisions contained in the General Appropriations Act. Upon determination that the requested budget allotment conforms with the approved work program and meets the above-mentioned goals and objectives, the Governor shall execute his or her warrant on the treasury for the funds included in the approved budget allotment. Notwithstanding any authorization for expenditure included in an appropriations Act, all appropriations in excess of the approved budget allotments for the budget year, as determined by the Office of Planning and Budget, shall cease to be an obligation of the state. The Office of Planning and Budget shall notify the House Budget and Research Office and the Senate Budget and Evaluation Office of any such action with appropriate supporting information.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 45, eff. 4/29/2014.
