# § 45-12-72. Establishment of Office of Planning and Budget; general provisions

(a) There is established in the office of the Governor the Office of Planning and Budget as a separate budget unit for the purpose of promoting economy and efficiency in the fiscal management of the state government. The Governor shall be ex officio director of the budget.
(b) The Governor, through the Office of Planning and Budget, shall have such supervision of every public department, agency, and institution as shall be necessary to secure uniformity and accuracy of accounts and efficient conduct of its fiscal affairs. He may inquire into the methods of conducting the affairs of any public body; he may prescribe and direct the use of such forms of accounts, records, and reports as may be necessary to further efficiency and an adequate system of records for budget-making purposes; and he may prescribe and direct the use of standards of efficiency for public employees, including the establishment of working hours.
(c) The administrative head of the Office of Planning and Budget is the director of the Office of Planning and Budget, who shall be appointed by the Governor to serve at the Governor's pleasure. The director shall be responsible for management of the office and shall exercise supervision and control over the office. The director of the Office of Planning and Budget is authorized to employ such other professional, technical, and clerical personnel as the director may deem necessary to carry out the duties prescribed in this part. Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the employees of the Office of Planning and Budget shall be governed by the rules and regulations of the State Personnel Board, under Article 1 of Chapter 20 of this title. The Office of Planning and Budget shall pay its share of the administrative cost of operating the state system of personnel management in the manner prescribed in Code Section 45-20-4. All employees in the position classification policy coordinator shall be in the unclassified service as defined by Code Section 45-20-2. Any and all salary increases for such employees shall be based, in part, on each individual employee's job performance as measured by a standard operative appraisal system and, in part, on general increases given to all state employees. The Governor is authorized to delegate to the director of the Office of Planning and Budget such powers, duties, and authority under this part as the Governor deems advisable; and the Governor shall have the right to retract any such delegation at any time.
(d) The Attorney General, the state treasurer, the comptroller general, the state revenue commissioner, and the state auditor shall render such advice and assistance and furnish such information to the Office of Planning and Budget as may be requested and needed.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 45, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-73, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
