# § 45-12-36. Reward for information leading to identification, apprehension, and conviction of persons who cause the death of a law enforcement officer

(a) For the purposes of this Code section, "conviction" means a final judgment of conviction entered upon a verdict of guilty or upon a plea of guilty. Such judgment shall be deemed to be a final judgment when the remittitur from the appellate court of this state affirming the conviction is filed in the court below or, if the proceeding is before a federal court, when the United States Circuit Court of Appeals has affirmed the conviction.
(b) Any person, except a person who shall be charged with the power, duty, and responsibility of enforcing the criminal laws of this state, who furnishes the necessary information which leads to the identification, apprehension, and conviction of a person who has committed the crime of murder or voluntary manslaughter, where the victim of such crime was a law enforcement officer acting in the line of duty at the time of the commission of such crime, may be entitled to receive a reward in an amount up to $10,000.00. No reward offered under this Code section shall be awarded unless the information furnished possesses such unique qualities that without the divulgence thereof by the person claiming the reward, the identity of the perpetrator of such crime and the evidence leading to his conviction would not have been readily ascertainable from other sources during the ordinary course of a routine investigation of the crime. In those instances where, in the judgment of the Governor, one or more persons should be entitled to the reward, the Governor shall direct the division of the reward among those entitled thereto at his discretion or he may rely upon the advice of the district attorney or other official prosecuting the case as to the appropriate division of the reward.
(c) The Governor, at his discretion, may pay any reward authorized by this Code section after conviction.
(d) The Governor may pay such reward to any such person from funds appropriated to the executive branch of the state government for such purpose.
