# § 45-12-75. Budget report - Contents and form

(1) Summary statements of the financial condition of the state, accompanied by such detailed schedules of assets and liabilities as the Governor deems desirable, which shall include, but not be limited to, the following:
  (A) A comparative consolidated balance sheet showing all the assets and liabilities of the state and the surplus or deficit, as the case may be, at the close of each of the two fiscal years last concluded;
  (B) Summary statements of fund balances showing in detail for each fund the surplus or deficit at the beginning of each of the two fiscal years last concluded, the actual income of that year, the total appropriation of that year, and the total expenditures of that year; and
  (C) Similar summary statements of the estimated fund balances for the current fiscal year and the next fiscal year;
(2) Statements of income and receipts for each of the two fiscal years last concluded, and the estimated income and receipts of the current fiscal year and the next fiscal year, and a statement of unappropriated surplus expected to have accrued in the state treasury at the beginning of the next fiscal year. The statements of income and estimated income shall be itemized by sources and by the budget unit collecting the same. The statements of receipts and estimated receipts shall be itemized by sources and by the budget unit receiving the same. Existing sources of income and receipts shall be analyzed as to their equity, productivity, and need for revision, and any proposed new sources of income or receipts shall be explained;
(3) Summary statements of expenditures and disbursements for each of the two fiscal years last concluded, itemized by budget units under functional heads and showing the amounts expended for each major function of the government;
(4) A statement of the surplus account, showing the excess of all current assets over all current liabilities as of the end of each of the two fiscal years last concluded and all changes in surplus account during each of such two fiscal years;
(5) Detailed comparative statements of expenditures and requests for appropriations by funds, budget units, and budget classes, showing the expenditures for each of the two fiscal years last concluded, the budget of the current year, and the Governor's recommendations for appropriations for each budget unit for the next fiscal year. Following the lists of actual and proposed expenditures of each budget unit there shall be a brief explanation of the functions of the unit and comments on its policies and plans and on any considerable differences among the amounts expended and the amounts recommended, with such descriptive, quantitative, comparative, and other data as to work done, unit costs, and like information as is considered necessary or desirable. In connection with each budget class of capital outlays involving construction projects to be completed in two or more fiscal years, there shall be shown the total estimated cost of each such project and the amount thereof recommended to be appropriated and expended in each ensuing fiscal year until completion of the project. Capital outlay needs shall be projected for a period that is consistent with each organization's approved strategic plan as summarized in the budget;
(6) A summary statement of the cash resources estimated to be available at the beginning of the next fiscal year and the estimated cash receipts of the fiscal year as compared with the total recommended amounts of appropriation for all budget classes for the year and, if the total of the recommended expenditures exceeds the total of the estimated resources, recommendations as to how the deficiency is to be met and estimates of receipts from any proposed additional revenues;
(7) A draft of a proposed General Appropriations Act or Acts embodying the Governor's budget report and recommendations for appropriations for the next fiscal year and drafts of such revenue and other Acts as may be recommended for putting into effect the proposed financial plan. The recommended appropriation for each budget unit shall be specified in a separate section of the General Appropriations Act. The total amount of appropriations recommended shall not exceed the cash resources available to meet expenditures under such appropriations;
(8) A tax expenditure review for the state. Such review shall be prepared by the Department of Audits and Accounts and provided to the Office of Planning and Budget in a timely manner for inclusion as part of the budget report. Such review shall detail for each tax expenditure item that amount of tax revenue forgone for at least a three-year period, including the period covered in the Governor's budget submitted the preceding January, the current budget, and an estimate of one future year; a citation of the statutory or other legal authority for the expenditure; the year in which it was enacted; and the tax year in which it became effective. The tax expenditure review may also include a regularly produced annex to include analysis of specific tax expenditures. Such analysis shall include, when possible: a description of the objective of the tax expenditure taken from original legislation; information relevant to determining whether the expenditure is meeting its stated purpose; an analysis of the tax expenditure's effect on the administration of the tax system; and an analysis of the persons, corporations, or other entities that are directly benefited by the expenditure. The tax expenditure information required under this paragraph shall be tracked and compiled by the Department of Revenue and provided in a timely manner to the Department of Audits and Accounts. Taxes included in this report shall cover all state taxes collected by the Department of Revenue. The Department of Revenue shall be authorized to provide estimations in the event the required tax expenditure information cannot be actually determined from available information. The Department of Revenue shall not be authorized to impose additional reporting requirements on any person or entity in order to track and compile any tax expenditure information. Nothing in this paragraph shall preclude the Department of Audits and Accounts from contracting out the preparation and analysis associated with the development of such report to any member institution of the University System of Georgia; and
(9) Such other information as the Governor deems desirable or as is required by law.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 288,§ 1, eff. 5/7/2013.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 45, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 391,§ 2, eff. 6/4/2010.
