# § 45-12-37. Reward for information leading to arrest and conviction of person selling dangerous or narcotic drugs generally; rewards by counties and municipalities

(a) For the purposes of this Code section, "conviction" means a final judgment of conviction entered upon a verdict of guilty or upon a plea of guilty. Such judgment shall be deemed to be a final judgment when the remittitur from the appellate court of this state affirming the conviction is filed in the court below or, if the proceeding is before a federal court, when the United States Circuit Court of Appeals has affirmed the conviction.
(b) Any person, other than a law enforcement officer, who furnishes information leading to the arrest and conviction of a person who is charged with selling dangerous drugs in violation of Code Section 16-13-72 may receive a reward of up to $500.00. Any person, other than a law enforcement officer, who furnishes information leading to the arrest and conviction of a person who is charged with selling a controlled substance in violation of Code Section 16-13-30 or 16-13-31, may receive a reward of $1,000.00.
(c) The Governor, at his discretion, may pay any reward authorized by this Code section after conviction.
(d) The Governor, at his discretion, may pay such reward to any such person from funds appropriated or otherwise available to the executive branch of the state government.
(e) Counties and municipalities wherein the crime was committed are authorized, but not required, to supplement or make rewards to persons entitled to receive a reward, as provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section, in an amount not to exceed $200.00 paid from county funds and $200.00 paid from municipal funds for each such person. Any rewards paid pursuant to this subsection shall be paid at the time the conviction becomes final, as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section, from the funds of any such county or municipality, as the case may be. It is declared that any funds expended pursuant to this subsection are expended for a public purpose.
(f) When more than one person furnishes information which would entitle them to receive the rewards pursuant to subsections (b) through (e) of this Code section, such rewards shall be paid to the first person furnishing such information; and, if more than one person furnishes such information at the same time, such rewards shall be prorated among all persons furnishing such information.
