# § 45-12-86. Governor authorized to require state agencies to reserve specified appropriations for budget reductions and withhold a percentage of agency allotments to maintain spending within actual revenues

(a) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, the Governor, during the first six months of a fiscal year period in which the current revenue estimate on which appropriations are based is expected to exceed actual revenues, is authorized to require state agencies to reserve such appropriations as specified by the Governor for budget reductions to be recommended to the General Assembly at its next regular session.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (c) of this Code section, the Governor, during any fiscal year by which the current revenue estimate on which appropriations are based is expected to exceed actual revenues, is authorized to withhold a percentage of agency allotment requests as necessary to maintain spending within actual revenues.
(c) During any fiscal year beginning on or after July 1, 2009, in which the current revenue estimate on which appropriations are based is expected to exceed actual revenues and an appropriation for homeowner tax relief grants pursuant to Chapter 89 of Title 36 has been made which does not comply with the limitations specified under subsection (d) of Code Section 36-89-3, the Governor shall either require the state agency to which the appropriation was made to reserve such appropriations as specified by the Governor for budget reductions to be recommended to the General Assembly at its next regular session or withhold the agency allotment request for such appropriation as necessary to maintain spending within actual revenues.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 45, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 1,§ 2, eff. 2/17/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 322,§ 4, eff. 5/9/2005.
