# § 45-12-82. Periodic work programs to be filed; funds not to be allotted until program approved; content and form of program; amendment of program; filing of copies of program

The Governor, through the Office of Planning and Budget, shall require each budget unit, other than those of the legislative branch and the judicial branch, to file periodic work programs with the Office of Planning and Budget at such time as the Office of Planning and Budget shall direct. As provided in Code Section 45-12-83, no allotment of funds shall be approved for any budget unit until such budget unit has filed a periodic work program with the Office of Planning and Budget and the periodic work program has been approved by the Governor. The work program shall be presented on forms prescribed by the Office of Planning and Budget and shall contain such information as the Governor, through the Office of Planning and Budget, may require. The work program shall include the amount of the portion of the appropriation required for the period's expenditures based on the budget prepared as provided in this part. Periodic work programs may be amended from time to time in such manner as the Office of Planning and Budget may require. A duplicate copy of all of the periodic work programs and any amendments thereto shall be filed simultaneously with the Office of Planning and Budget, the state treasurer, the state auditor, the Senate Budget and Evaluation Office, and the House Budget and Research Office.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 45, eff. 4/29/2014.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
