# § 45-12-80. Appropriations Act to adopt financial plans; effect of annual appropriation Acts; supplementary appropriations Acts; submission of budget to Office of Planning and Budget

(a) The financial plan for each fiscal year, as presented in the budget report, shall be adopted, with such modifications as are made by the General Assembly, by the passage of a General Appropriations Act and such revenue and other Acts as are necessary for the purpose.
(b) Each General Appropriations Act, now of force or hereafter adopted, with such amendments as are adopted from time to time shall continue in force and effect for the next fiscal year after adoption; and it shall then expire except for the mandatory appropriations required by the Constitution of Georgia or those required to meet contractual obligations authorized by the Constitution of Georgia or the continued appropriation of federal grants.
(c) In addition to the appropriations made by the General Appropriations Act and amendments thereto, the General Assembly may make additional appropriations by Acts, which shall be known as supplementary appropriations Acts, provided no such supplementary appropriation shall be available unless there is an unappropriated surplus in the state treasury or the revenue necessary to pay such appropriation shall have been provided by a tax laid for such purpose and collected into the general fund of the state treasury. Neither house shall pass a supplementary appropriation bill until the General Appropriations Act shall have been finally adopted by both houses and approved by the Governor.
(d) The annual operating budget for each budget unit shall be submitted for approval to the Office of Planning and Budget by May 31 of the fiscal year preceding the effective date; shall be submitted on forms and in the format as determined by the Office of Planning and Budget; and shall conform to approved appropriations Acts. The total annual operating budget, including such schedules and supplementary information as may be required by the Office of Planning and Budget, shall be considered the financial plan for the budget unit. The various schedules included in the annual operating budget shall govern the approved expenditures for the applicable object class and shall ensure that these expenditures conform to both the letter and the intent of approved appropriations Acts. The Governor through the Office of Planning and Budget shall direct to be made such changes in the submitted annual operating budget as the Governor deems necessary to bring the annual operating budget into conformity with approved appropriations Acts.
