# § 45-12-211. Creation; appointment; jurisdiction; structure

(a) There is created the Office of the Inspector General, for which purpose shall be to investigate the management and operation of agencies. The office shall be assigned to the Office of the Governor for administrative purposes only, as described in Code Section 50-4-3. The jurisdiction, authorization, powers, and duties granted to the office in this article shall be in addition to, and not in contravention of, any and all jurisdiction, authorization, powers, and duties of the Attorney General or any other state or local law enforcement agency.
(b) The Governor shall appoint an inspector general subject to confirmation by the Senate. The initial appointment shall expire on June 30, 2023, and all subsequent appointments shall be for terms of six years, with the first such appointment beginning on July 1, 2023, and expiring on June 30, 2028. In the event of a vacancy for any reason except the expiration of the term of office, the Governor shall appoint a successor to serve the remainder of that term. The inspector general shall be eligible to serve one or more successive terms. The Governor shall have the authority to remove the inspector general from office for good cause after providing to the inspector general written notice. Removal of the inspector general shall be effective upon the date upon which such notice is signed by the Governor or, at the election of the Governor, upon any subsequent date specified in the notice.
(c) The inspector general shall have jurisdiction over any official, officer, employee, department, division, bureau, board, commission, or agency in the executive branch of state government.
(d) The inspector general shall establish the organization structure appropriate to carrying out the responsibilities and functions of the office and shall have the power to employ, promote, and remove such assistants, employees, and personnel as deemed necessary for the efficient and effective administration of the office.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 5,§ 1, eff. 3/29/2023.
