# § 44-6-166.1. Partition when physical division of property is inequitable

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Party in interest" means any person, other than a petitioner, having an interest in property.
  (2) "Petitioner" means any person petitioning for partition of property.
  (3) "Property" means lands and tenements sought to be partitioned pursuant to this subpart.
(b) Whenever an application is made for the partition of property and any of the parties in interest convinces the court that a fair and equitable division of the property cannot be made by means of metes and bounds because of improvements made thereon, because the premises are valuable for mining purposes or for the erection of mills or other machinery, or because the value of the entire property will be depreciated by the partition applied for, the court shall proceed pursuant to this Code section.
(c) The court shall appoint three qualified persons to make appraisals of the property. The average of the three appraisals shall constitute the appraised price of the property for purposes of this Code section. Notice of the amount of the appraised price shall be served on the petitioners and all parties in interest within five days after the appraised price is established.
(d) Within 15 days after the appraised price is established, upon request to the court and grant thereof, any petitioner may withdraw as petitioner in the partition action and become a party in interest and any party in interest may become a petitioner in the action. Any petitioner remaining as such after the fifteenth day may be paid, pursuant to this Code section, his respective share of the appraised price corresponding to his respective share of the property. This payment shall constitute complete satisfaction of all of that petitioner's claims to and interest in that property. If no petitioner remains in the partition action after that fifteenth day, the proceeding shall be dismissed, and the petitioners who have withdrawn shall be liable for the costs of the action, including but not limited to the appraisal costs.
(e)
  (1) No sooner than 16 days and no later than 90 days after the appraised price is established, the parties in interest shall tender to the court sufficient sums to pay to petitioners their shares of the appraised price, as determined by their respective shares in the property, or the property shall be subject to public sale pursuant to Code Section 44-6-167. If the property is subject to such public sale, the petitioner and the parties in interest shall be liable for appraisal costs under this Code section in proportion to their respective interests in the property.
  (2) Each party in interest may pay toward the amount required to purchase any petitioners' shares of the appraised price an amount in proportion to that party's share of the total shares of property of all parties in interest, unless one party in interest authorizes another party in interest to pay some or all of his proportionate share of the shares available for sale. The share of each party in interest in the property shall be increased by the share that party pays toward the purchase of petitioners' shares in the property.
(f) Within 95 days after the appraised price is established, unless the property becomes subject to public sale pursuant to paragraph (1) of subsection (e) of this Code section, the petitioners shall execute title to the parties in interest for the property in return for payment to the petitioners, from sums tendered to court under subsection (e) of this Code section, of their respective shares of the appraised price. Petitioners and parties in interest shall be liable for costs of the sale and proceedings relating thereto under this Code section in proportion to their respective shares in the property prior to that sale.
