# § 44-6-171. Setting aside judgment by parties under disability, absent, or not notified; time limitations; conclusiveness of judgment; effect of proceedings on bona fide purchaser

When proceedings have been instituted and judgment of the partition has been rendered according to the regulations prescribed in this part and if any one of the parties in interest is a minor or a mentally ill or intellectually disabled person who has no guardian, or is absent from the state during such proceeding, or has not been notified thereof, such minor or mentally ill or intellectually disabled person may, within 12 months after coming of age, after restoration of mind, or after having a guardian appointed, as the case may be, and such absent or unnotified party may, at any time within 12 months after rendition of the judgment, move the court to set aside the judgment on any of the grounds upon which a party notified and free from disabilities might have resisted the judgment upon the hearing as authorized by Code Section 44-6-165. The issue shall be tried and the subsequent proceedings shall be the same as is provided for in cases of objections filed to the return of the partitioners before judgment. If such motion to set aside the judgment is not made within the time specified in this Code section, such judgment shall be as binding and conclusive upon such minor, mentally ill or intellectually disabled person, or absent or unnotified party as if he or she had been notified, present, or free from disability. In no event shall such subsequent proceedings affect the title of a bona fide purchaser under a sale ordered by the court.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 70,§ 4-12, eff. 7/1/2015.
