# § 44-6-187. Open market sales; brokers and commissions; sealed bids or public sale

(a) If the court orders an open-market sale of heirs property, the sale shall be an open-market sale unless the court finds that a sale by sealed bids or a public sale would be more economically advantageous and in the best interest of the cotenants as a group.
(b) If the court orders an open-market sale and the parties, not later than ten days after the entry of the order, agree on a broker to offer the property for sale, the court shall appoint the broker and establish a reasonable commission. If the parties cannot agree on a broker, the court shall appoint a disinterested broker to offer the property for sale and shall establish a reasonable commission. The broker shall offer the property for sale in a commercially reasonable manner at a price no lower than the fair market value determined by the court under Code Section 44-6-184 or the valuation of the property agreed upon by the cotenants and on the terms and conditions established by the court.
(c) If the broker appointed under subsection (b) of this Code section obtains within a reasonable time an offer to purchase the property for at least the fair market value determined by the court under Code Section 44-6-184 or the valuation of the property agreed upon by the cotenants:
  (1) The broker shall comply with the reporting requirements in Code Section 44-6-188; and
  (2) The sale may be completed in accordance with state law other than this subpart.
(d) If the broker appointed under subsection (b) of this Code section cannot obtain within a reasonable time an offer to purchase the property for at least the fair market value determined by the court under Code Section 44-6-184 or the valuation of the property agreed upon by the cotenants, the court, after hearing, shall:
  (1) Approve the highest outstanding offer, if any;
  (2) Redetermine the value of the property and order that the property continue to be offered for an additional time; or
  (3) Order that the property be sold by sealed bids or at a public sale.
(e) If the court orders a sale by sealed bids or a public sale, the court shall set terms and conditions of the sale. If the court orders a public sale, the public sale shall be conducted as a public sale in accordance with Code section 44-6-167.
(f) If a purchaser is entitled to a share of the proceeds of the sale, the purchaser shall be entitled to a credit against the price in an amount equal to the purchaser's share of the proceeds.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 585,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2013.
