# § 28-1-8.1. Failure of members to file state income tax returns

(a) The state revenue commissioner shall be required to report to the chairperson of the Senate Ethics Committee the name of any Senator who has not filed a Georgia personal income tax return required by law to be filed by the Senator or is a defaulter for state income taxes in violation of Article II, Section II, Paragraph III of the Constitution. The state revenue commissioner shall be required to report to the chairperson of the House Committee on Ethics the name of any Representative who has not filed a Georgia personal income tax return required by law to be filed by the Representative or is a defaulter for state income taxes in violation of Article II, Section II, Paragraph III of the Constitution.
(b) The state revenue commissioner shall give written notice by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, or statutory overnight delivery of any report under this Code section to the member of the General Assembly who is to be named at least 30 days prior to making such report.
(c) Upon receipt of a report under this Code section, the chairperson of the committee to whom the report is made shall undertake an appropriate investigation of the matter and report the findings of the investigation to the presiding officer of his or her chamber.
(d) Nothing in this Code section shall apply with respect to a tax return for which the taxpayer has timely applied for and received an unexpired extension of time to file.
(e) The provisions of this Code section shall control over the provisions of Code Section 48-7-60 or any other law relating to confidential treatment of state income tax return information.

## History

Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 109,§ 7, eff. 5/4/2009.
