# § 28-1-14. Notice of intention to introduce local bill; copies to governing authorities

(a) No local bill shall become law unless notice of the intention to introduce such bill shall have been advertised in the newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements for the locality affected are published one time before the bill is introduced. Such advertisement must be not more than 60 days prior to the convening date of the session at which the bill is introduced. After the advertisement has been published the bill may be introduced at any time during that session unless the advertisement is published during the session, in which event the bill may not be introduced before Monday of the calendar week following the week in which the advertisement is published.
(b) No local bill amending the charter of a municipality or the enabling Act of the governing authority of a county or a consolidated government shall become law unless a copy of the notice of the intention to introduce local legislation required by subsection (a) of this Code section is mailed, transmitted by facsimile, or otherwise provided to the governing authority of any county, municipality, or consolidated government referred to in the bill during the calendar week in which such notice is published as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section or during the seven days immediately following the date of publication of such notice. A single notice sent by United States mail, postage prepaid, addressed to the governing authority of the county, municipality, or consolidated government at the official address of such governing authority shall satisfy the requirement of this subsection. If such notice is mailed, the notice requirement of this subsection shall be presumed to have been met by depositing the copy of the required notice in the United States mail. For purposes of this subsection, the copy of the notice provided to such governing authority may consist of an actual or photostatic copy of the published notice or a typed restatement of the contents of such notice.
(c) A copy of the notice as it was advertised and an affidavit stating that the notice has been published as provided by this Code section and that the notice requirements of this Code section have been met shall be attached to the bill and shall become a part of the bill. Such affidavit shall be made by the author of the bill.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 868, § 1, eff. 5/14/2002.
