# § 50-29-21. Prohibition on installation, use, or visiting of social media platforms on state electronic devices; exception

(a) Except as provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section, a state employee or student shall not install, use, or visit any social media platform on state equipment when:
  (1) The company that directly or indirectly owns or operates such social media platform is:
    (A) Directly or indirectly owned or operated by a foreign adversary or is domiciled in, has its principal place of business in, has headquarters in, or is organized under the laws of a foreign adversary;
    (B) Domiciled or has its principal place of business or headquarters in a foreign adversary; or
    (C) Organized under the laws of a foreign adversary.
  (2) A foreign adversary has substantial direct or indirect control or influence over the content moderation practices of a company which directly or indirectly owns or operates the social media platform; or
  (3) The social media platform uses software or an algorithm that is directly or indirectly controlled or monitored by a foreign adversary.
(b) Notwithstanding the provisions in subsection (a) of this Code section, a state employee shall be authorized to install, use, or visit a social media platform that is otherwise prohibited pursuant to this Code section on state equipment for law enforcement purposes, cybersecurity research and development, or judicial or legislative proceedings.
(c) The provisions of this Code section shall be broadly construed and are applicable to the executive, legislative, and judicial branches of this state.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 255,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2023.
