# § 50-29-12. Authorization for state agencies to establish pilot projects to serve as models for application of technology; reports

(a) The General Assembly desires to promote economic development and efficient delivery of government services by encouraging state governmental agencies and private sector entities to conduct their business and transactions using electronic media.
(b) All state agencies, authorities, and boards are authorized to establish pilot projects, which are to serve as models for the application of technology such as electronic signatures, through public and private partnerships with private companies providing such technology related services. Such pilot projects shall be approved by the Georgia Technology Authority. Such projects shall consider both commercial and government applications, be inclusive of major categories of electronic signature technology, and be established through a request for proposal process. The pilot projects are intended to provide a proof of concept for the application of technology, such as electronic signatures, and to serve to educate the General Assembly and the public at large as to the benefits of electronic signatures as well as the role of state government in any future regulatory capacity. One such pilot project may involve digital signatures and the use of a public key infrastructure established by a service provider. Any private partner chosen for these pilot projects may establish user fees to pay for the cost of these services so that no state funds would be required.
(c) State agencies establishing pilot projects shall submit quarterly progress reports on such projects to the Georgia Technology Authority. The authority shall monitor the success of such pilot projects and provide technical assistance to the extent that resources of the authority are available.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 46,§ 5, eff. 4/21/2009.
Subsection (d) is repealed eff. 12/31/2002, pursuant to its own terms. .
