# § 50-29-20. Definitions

(1) "Company" means any sole proprietorship, organization, association, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, or other entity or business association, including all wholly owned subsidiaries, majority owned subsidiaries, parent companies, or affiliates of such entities or business associations, that exists for the purpose of making profit.
(2) "Foreign adversary" means a foreign government or foreign nongovernmental entity as listed in 15 C.F.R. 7.4(a) in effect on January 1, 2023.
(3) "Social media platform" means an internet website or application that is open to the public, allows users to create accounts, enables users to communicate or interact with other users, permits users to create or post content, messages, information, or images that are viewable by other users, and permits users to comment on or message other users regarding such content, messages, information, or images.
(4) "State agency" means any agency, authority, department, institution, board, bureau, commission, committee, office, or instrumentality of the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of government of this state.
(5) "State employee" means an officer, official, employee, or independent contractor of a state agency.
(6) "State equipment" means any electronic device, including any system, computer, mobile electronic device, or other technological equipment capable of internet connectivity, that is owned, leased, or otherwise controlled by a state agency and used for state business.
(7) "Student" means a person who is included in a full-time equivalent program count under Code Section 20-2-160.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 255,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2023.
See 2023 Ga. Laws 255, § 1.
