# § 7-9-11.1. Merger or consolidation requirements

(a) Merchant acquirer limited purpose banks may merge or consolidate upon compliance with the requirements of this chapter and other applicable laws and regulations.
(b) A corporation other than a merchant acquirer limited purpose bank may be merged into or may be consolidated with a merchant acquirer limited purpose bank, provided that:
  (1) The resulting institution of the merger or consolidation is a merchant acquirer limited purpose bank;
  (2) The resulting institution of the merger or consolidation holds only assets and liabilities and is engaged only in activities which may be held or engaged in by a merchant acquirer limited purpose bank; and
  (3) The merger or consolidation is not otherwise unlawful.
(c) A merger or consolidation pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall be made by compliance with the requirements of this chapter. Title 14 shall not be applicable to such a merger or consolidation.
(d) In the case of a merger of a merchant acquirer limited purpose bank with any other corporation or corporations, with the merchant acquirer limited purpose bank as the resulting entity, any assets, lines of business, activities, or powers which may accrue to the resulting entity which would be prohibited for a merchant acquirer limited purpose bank shall be provided for in the plan of merger. Such plan shall include a proposal for the disposal of such prohibited assets or the termination of such prohibited line of business, activity, or power. The department shall review such plan to determine whether the prohibited asset, line of business, activity, or power should be a basis for denial of the requested merger or consolidation or phased out within a reasonable period of time, which shall be determined by the department.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 4-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
