# § 7-9-13. Regulation and enforcement by department; rules and regulations

(a) All merchant acquirer limited purpose banks chartered by the department shall be subject to supervision, regulation, and examination by the department, including, but not limited to, the examination powers as provided in Code Sections 7-1-64 through 7-1-73, and the department shall have all enforcement powers provided in this title.
(b) In the event any chartered merchant acquirer limited purpose bank does not conduct its activities within the limitations provided in Code Section 7-9-12, the department may require such merchant acquirer limited purpose bank to cease all unauthorized activities. In the event such chartered merchant acquirer limited purpose bank fails to abide by such order, the department may:
  (1) Impose upon the chartered merchant acquirer limited purpose bank or its parent holding company a penalty of up to $10,000.00 per day for each day such order is violated; and
  (2) Require divestiture of such chartered merchant acquirer limited purpose bank by any holding company not qualified to acquire such chartered merchant acquirer limited purpose bank on the date it ceased to operate within the limitations imposed by Code Section 7-9-12 and became a bank for purposes of this title.
(c) The department shall have the power to promulgate rules and regulations implementing the provisions of this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 523,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2014.
Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 435,§ 1, eff. 3/28/2012.
