# § 7-9-11.7. Certificate effective upon issuance; evidence of satisfactory performance; effect of merger

(a) A merger or consolidation of a merchant acquirer limited purpose bank shall become effective upon the issuance of a certificate of merger or consolidation by the Secretary of State.
(b) A certificate of merger or consolidation shall be conclusive evidence of satisfactory performance of all conditions precedent to a merger or consolidation and of the existence or creation of a merchant acquirer limited purpose bank, except as against the state.
(c) When a merger or consolidation becomes effective, each party to the merger or consolidation plan, except the resulting merchant acquirer limited purpose bank, shall cease to exist as a separate entity. Upon merger or consolidation, any parties to a merger or consolidation plan shall become a single corporation which shall be the merchant acquirer limited purpose bank and which shall have, without further act or deed, all property, rights, powers, duties, and obligations of each party to a merger or consolidation plan.
(d) The articles of a resulting merchant acquirer limited purpose bank established from a merger shall be the same as its articles prior to the merger with any change stated in the articles of merger. The articles of a resulting merchant acquirer limited purpose bank established from a consolidation shall be the same as its articles prior to the consolidation with any change stated in the articles of consolidation.
(e) A resulting merchant acquirer limited purpose bank shall be authorized to engage only in such business and exercise only such powers as are then permissible upon original incorporation under this chapter and shall be subject to the same prohibitions and limitations as it would then be subject to upon original incorporation.
(f) No liability of any party to a merger or consolidation plan or of its shareholders, directors, or officers shall be affected nor shall any lien on any property of a party to the plan be impaired by a merger or consolidation. Any claim existing or action pending by or against any party to a merger or consolidation plan may be prosecuted to judgment as if a merger or consolidation had not taken place or a resulting merchant acquirer limited purpose bank may be substituted in place of such appropriate party of a plan of proposed merger or consolidation.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 450,§ 4-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
