# § 48-16-10. Imposition of cost of collection fee after amnesty period expires

(a) In addition to all other penalties provided under this chapter or any other law, the commissioner may by regulation impose after the expiration of the tax amnesty period a cost of collection fee of 20 percent of any deficiency assessed for any taxable period ending or transactions occurring after December 31, 1990. This fee shall be in addition to all other applicable penalties, fees, or costs. The commissioner shall have the right to waive any collection fee when it is demonstrated that any deficiency of the taxpayer was not due to negligence, intentional disregard of administrative rules and regulations, or fraud.
(b) In addition to all other penalties provided under this chapter or any other law, the commissioner may pursuant to regulation impose after the expiration of the tax amnesty period a cost of collection fee of 50 percent of any deficiency assessed after the amnesty period for taxable periods ending or transactions occurring on or before December 31, 1990, regardless of when due. This fee shall be in addition to all other applicable penalties, fees, or costs. The commissioner shall have the right to waive any collection fee when it is demonstrated that any deficiency of the taxpayer was not due to negligence, intentional disregard of administrative rules and regulations, or fraud.
(c) The provisions of subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section shall not apply to any account which has been protested pursuant to Code Section 48-2-46 as of the expiration of the amnesty period and which does not become final, due, and owing, or to any account on which the taxpayer is remitting timely payments under a payment agreement negotiated with the commissioner prior to or during the amnesty period.
(d) The fee levied under subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section shall not apply to taxes paid pursuant to the terms of the amnesty program.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 196,§ 3, eff. 5/6/2013.
