# § 10-5-74. Issuance of forms and orders; adoption and amendment of rules

(a) The Commissioner may:
  (1) Issue forms and orders and, after notice and comment, may adopt and amend rules necessary or appropriate to carry out this chapter and may repeal rules, including rules and forms governing registration statements, applications, notice filings, reports, and other records;
  (2) By rule, define terms, whether or not used in this chapter, but those definitions may not be inconsistent with this chapter; and
  (3) By rule, classify securities, persons, and transactions and adopt different requirements for different classes.
(b) Under this chapter, a rule or form may not be adopted or amended or an order issued or amended unless the Commissioner finds that the rule, form, order, or amendment is necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors and is consistent with the purposes intended by this chapter. In adopting, amending, and repealing rules and forms, Code Section 10-5-77 applies in order to achieve uniformity among the states and coordination with federal laws in the form and content of registration statements, applications, reports, and other records, including the adoption of uniform rules, forms, and procedures.
(c) Subject to Section 15(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. Section 78a, et seq., and Section 222 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. Section 80b-1, et seq., the Commissioner may require that a financial statement filed under this chapter be prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States and comply with other requirements specified by rule adopted or order issued under this chapter. A rule adopted or order issued under this chapter may establish:
  (1) Subject to Section 15(h) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 15 U.S.C. Section 78a, et seq., and Section 222 of the Investment Advisors Act of 1940, 15 U.S.C. Section 80b-1, et seq., the form and content of financial statements required under this chapter;
  (2) Whether unconsolidated financial statements must be filed; and
  (3) Whether required financial statements must be audited by an independent certified public accountant.
(d) The Commissioner may provide interpretative opinions or issue determinations that the Commissioner will not institute a proceeding or an action under this chapter against a specified person for engaging in a specified act, practice, or course of business if the determination is consistent with this chapter. A rule adopted or order issued under this chapter may establish a reasonable charge for interpretative opinions or determinations that the Commissioner will not institute an action or a proceeding under this chapter.
(e) A hearing in an administrative proceeding under this chapter shall be conducted in public unless the Commissioner for good cause consistent with this chapter determines that the hearing shall not be so conducted.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 528,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
