# § 10-5-73. Cease and desist orders; denying, revoking, or conditioning exemptions for broker-dealers; civil penalties

(a) If the Commissioner determines that a person has engaged, is engaging, or is about to engage in an act, practice, or course of business constituting a violation of this chapter or a rule adopted or order issued under this chapter or that a person has materially aided, is materially aiding, or is about to materially aid an act, practice, or course of business constituting a violation of this chapter or a rule adopted or order issued under this chapter, the Commissioner may:
  (1) Issue an order directing the person to cease and desist from engaging in the act, practice, or course of business or to take other action necessary or appropriate to comply with this chapter;
  (2) Issue an order denying, suspending, revoking, or conditioning the exemptions for a broker-dealer under subparagraph (b)(1)(D) or (b)(1)(F) of Code Section 10-5-30 or an investment adviser under subparagraph (b)(1)(C) of Code Section 10-5-32; or
  (3) Issue an order under Code Section 10-5-13.
(b) An order under subsection (a) of this Code section is effective on the date of issuance. Upon issuance of the order, the Commissioner shall promptly serve each person subject to the order with a copy of the order and a notice that the order has been entered. The order must include a statement whether the Commissioner will seek a civil penalty or costs of the investigation, a statement of the reasons for the order, and notice that, within 30 days after receipt of a request in a record from the person, the matter will be scheduled for a hearing. If a person subject to the order does not request a hearing and none is ordered by the Commissioner within 30 days after the date of service of the order, the order becomes final as to that person by operation of law. If a hearing is requested or ordered, the Commissioner, after notice of and opportunity for hearing to each person subject to the order, may modify or vacate the order or extend it until final determination.
(c) If a hearing is requested or ordered pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, a hearing must be held pursuant to the provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act" and this chapter. A final order may not be issued unless the Commissioner makes findings of fact and conclusions of law in a record. The final order may make final, vacate, or modify the order issued under subsection (a) of this Code section.
(d) In a final order under subsection (c) of this Code section, the Commissioner may impose a civil penalty up to $50,000.00 for a single violation or up to $500,000.00 for more than one violation.
(e) In a final order under subsection (c) of this Code section, the Commissioner may charge the actual cost of an investigation or proceeding for a violation of this chapter or a rule adopted or order issued under this chapter.
(f) If a petition for judicial review of a final order is not filed in accordance with Code Section 10-5-78, the Commissioner may file a certified copy of the final order with the clerk of a court of competent jurisdiction. The order so filed has the same effect as a judgment of the court and may be recorded, enforced, or satisfied in the same manner as a judgment of the court.
(g) If a person does not comply with an order under this Code section, the Commissioner may petition a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the order. The court may not require the Commissioner to post a bond in an action or proceeding under this Code section. If the court finds, after service and opportunity for hearing, that the person was not in compliance with the order, the court may adjudge the person in civil contempt of the order. The court may impose a further civil penalty against the person for contempt in an amount not less than $5,000.00 but not greater than $50,000.00 for each violation and may grant any other relief the court determines is just and proper in the circumstances.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 528,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
