# § 10-5-35. Application for registration; consent to service of process

(a) A person shall register as a broker-dealer, agent, investment adviser, or investment adviser representative by filing an application and a consent to service of process complying with Code Section 10-5-80, and paying the fee specified in Code Section 10-5-39 and any reasonable fees charged by the Commissioner for processing the filing. The application must contain:
  (1) The information or records required for the filing of a uniform application as required for applicants registering through the Central Registration Depository and the Investment Adviser Registration Depository, as applicable; and
  (2) Upon request by the Commissioner, any other financial or other information or record that the Commissioner determines is appropriate.
(b)
  (1) Each individual filing an application to become a salesperson, limited salesperson, designated salesperson, investment adviser, federal covered adviser, or investment adviser representative shall be fingerprinted and have a criminal record check as required by this subsection.
  (2) Fingerprints shall be in such form and quality as shall be acceptable for submission to the National Crime Information Center under standards adopted by the Federal Bureau of Investigation or the United States Department of Justice. It shall be the duty of each law enforcement agency in this state to fingerprint those persons required to be fingerprinted by this subsection.
  (3) At the discretion of the Commissioner, fees required for a criminal record check by the Georgia Crime Information Center, the National Crime Information Center, the Federal Bureau of Investigation, or the United States Department of Justice shall be paid by the applicant.
  (4) The Commissioner shall transmit two sets of fingerprints to the Georgia Crime Information Center, which shall submit one set of fingerprints to the Federal Bureau of Investigation for a search of bureau records and an appropriate report and shall retain one set of fingerprints and promptly conduct a search of state records. After receiving a report from the Georgia Crime Information Center and the Federal Bureau of Investigation, the Commissioner shall determine whether the applicant shall be licensed. If the applicant's fingerprints had been previously submitted for review to the Central Registration Depository in connection with federal or state licensing, the Commissioner may review and rely upon the criminal history reported pursuant thereto.
  (5) The Commissioner shall notify the applicant of his or her rights to challenge the accuracy and completeness of any information provided by the Georgia Crime Information Center or the National Crime Information Center.
  (6) Information provided by the Georgia Crime Information Center or the National Crime Information Center shall be used only for those purposes allowed by Code Section 35-3-35 or by applicable federal laws, rules, or regulations.
  (7) Neither the Georgia Crime Information Center, the Commissioner, any law enforcement agency, nor the employees of any such entities shall be responsible for the accuracy of the information contained in the criminal background check nor incur any liability for defamation, invasion of privacy, negligence, or any other claim in connection with any dissemination of information or determination based thereon pursuant to this subsection.
  (8) The Commissioner shall be authorized to adopt rules and regulations necessary to implement the provisions of this subsection.
(c) If the information or record contained in an application filed under subsection (a) of this Code section is or becomes inaccurate or incomplete in a material respect, the registrant shall promptly file a correcting amendment.
(d) If an order is not in effect and a proceeding is not pending under Code Section 10-5-41, registration becomes effective at noon on the forty-fifth day after a completed application is filed unless the registration is denied. A rule adopted or order issued under this chapter may set an earlier effective date or may defer the effective date until noon on the forty-fifth day after the filing of any amendment completing the application.
(e) A registration is effective until midnight on December 31 of the year for which the application for registration is filed. Unless an order is in effect under Code Section 10-5-41, a registration may be automatically renewed each year by filing such records as are required by rule adopted or order issued under this chapter, by paying the fee specified in Code Section 10-5-39, and by paying costs charged by the Commissioner for processing the filings.
(f) A rule adopted or order issued under this chapter may impose such other conditions, not inconsistent with the National Securities Markets Improvement Act of 1996, 15 U.S.C. Section 80b-1, et seq. An order issued under this chapter may waive, in whole or in part, such requirements in connection with registration as are in the public interest and for the protection of investors.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 528,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
