# § 10-5-36. Successors to registration; change of name, form of organization, and control

(a) A broker-dealer or investment adviser may succeed to the current registration of another broker-dealer or investment adviser or a notice filing of a federal covered investment adviser and a federal covered investment adviser may succeed to the current registration of an investment adviser or notice filing of another federal covered investment adviser by filing as a successor an application for registration pursuant to Code Section 10-5-30 or 10-5-32 or a notice pursuant to Code Section 10-5-34 for the unexpired portion of the current registration or notice filing.
(b) A broker-dealer or investment adviser that changes its form of organization or state of incorporation or organization may continue its registration by filing an amendment to its registration if the change does not involve a material change in its financial condition or management. The amendment becomes effective when filed or on a date designated by the registrant in its filing. The new organization is a successor to the original registrant for the purposes of this chapter. If there is a material change in financial condition or management, the broker-dealer or investment adviser shall file a new application for registration. A predecessor registered under this chapter shall stop conducting its securities business other than winding down transactions and shall file for withdrawal of broker-dealer or investment adviser registration within 45 days after filing its amendment to effect succession.
(c) A broker-dealer or investment adviser that changes its name may continue its registration by filing an amendment to its registration. The amendment becomes effective when filed or on a date designated by the registrant.
(d) A change of control of a broker-dealer or investment adviser may be made in accordance with a rule adopted or order issued under this chapter.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 528,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
