# § 10-5-22. Registration by coordination; additional records; effective date of federal registration statement

(a) A security for which a registration statement has been filed under the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. Section 77a, et seq., in connection with the same offering may be registered by coordination under this Code section.
(b) A registration statement and accompanying records under this Code section must contain or be accompanied by the following records in addition to the information specified in Code Section 10-5-24 and a consent to service of process complying with Code Section 10-5-80:
  (1) A copy of the latest form of prospectus filed under the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. Section 77a, et seq.;
  (2) A copy of the articles of incorporation and bylaws or their substantial equivalents currently in effect; a copy of any agreement with or among underwriters; a copy of any indenture or other instrument governing the issuance of the security to be registered; and a specimen, copy, or description of the security that is required by rule adopted or order issued under this chapter;
  (3) Copies of any other information or any other records filed by the issuer under the Securities Act of 1933, 15 U.S.C. Section 77a, et seq., requested by the Commissioner; and
  (4) An undertaking to forward each amendment to the federal prospectus, other than an amendment that delays the effective date of the registration statement, promptly after it is filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
(c) A registration statement under this Code section becomes effective simultaneously with or subsequent to the federal registration statement when all the following conditions are satisfied:
  (1) A stop order issued under subsection (d) of this Code section or Code Section 10-5-25 or issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission is not in effect and a proceeding is not pending against the issuer under Code Section 10-5-41; and
  (2) The registration statement has been on file for at least 20 days or a shorter period provided by rule adopted or order issued under this chapter.
(d) The registrant shall promptly notify the Commissioner in a record of the date when the federal registration statement becomes effective and the content of any price amendment and shall promptly file a record containing the price amendment. If the notice is not timely received, the Commissioner may issue a stop order, without prior notice or hearing, retroactively denying effectiveness to the registration statement or suspending its effectiveness until compliance with this Code section. The Commissioner shall promptly notify the registrant of an order by telephone or electronic means and promptly confirm this notice by a record. If the registrant subsequently complies with the notice requirements of this Code section, the stop order is void as of the date of its issuance.
(e) If the federal registration statement becomes effective before each of the conditions in this Code section is satisfied or is waived by the Commissioner, the registration statement is automatically effective under this chapter when all the conditions are satisfied or waived. If the registrant notifies the Commissioner of the date when the federal registration statement is expected to become effective, the Commissioner shall promptly notify the registrant by telephone or electronic means and promptly confirm this notice by a record, indicating whether all the conditions are satisfied or waived and whether the Commissioner intends the institution of a proceeding under Code Section 10-5-25. The notice by the Commissioner does not preclude the institution of such a proceeding.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 528,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
