# § 10-5-39. Fees

(a) A person shall pay a fee of $250.00 when initially filing an application for registration as a broker-dealer and a fee of $100.00 when filing a renewal of registration as a broker-dealer. If the filing results in a denial or withdrawal, the Commissioner shall retain the fee.
(b) The fee for an individual is $50.00 when filing an application for registration as an agent, $40.00 when filing a renewal of registration as an agent, and $30.00 when filing for a change of registration as an agent. If the filing results in a denial or withdrawal, the Commissioner shall retain the fee.
(c) A person shall pay a fee of $250.00 when filing an application for registration as an investment adviser and a fee of $100.00 when filing a renewal of registration as an investment adviser. If the filing results in a denial or withdrawal, the Commissioner shall retain the fee.
(d) The fee for an individual is $250.00 when filing an application for registration as an investment adviser representative, a fee of $100.00 when filing a renewal of registration as an investment adviser representative, and a fee of $50.00 when filing a change of registration as an investment adviser representative. If the filing results in a denial or withdrawal, the Commissioner shall retain the fee.
(e) A federal covered investment adviser required to file a notice under Code Section 10-5-34 shall pay an initial fee of $250.00 and an annual notice fee of $100.00.
(f) A person required to pay a filing or notice fee under this Code section may transmit the fee through or to a designee as a rule adopted or order issued provides under this chapter.
(g) An investment adviser representative who is registered as an agent under Code Section 10-5-31 and who represents a person that is both registered as a broker-dealer under Code Section 10-5-30 and registered as an investment adviser under Code Section 10-5-32 or required as a federal covered investment adviser to make a notice filing under Code Section 10-5-34 is not required to pay an initial or annual registration fee for registration as an investment adviser representative.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 528,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2009.
