# § 45-23-3. Definitions

(1) "Controlled substance" means any drug, substance, or immediate precursor included in the definition of the term "controlled substance" in paragraph (4) of Code Section 16-13-21.
(2) "Convicted" or "conviction" refers to a final conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction or the acceptance of a plea of guilty.
(3) "Dangerous drug" means any drug or substance defined as such under Code Section 16-13-71.
(4) "Marijuana" means any substance described in paragraph (16) of Code Section 16-13-21.
(5) "Public employee" means any person employed on a full-time, part-time, temporary, or intermittent basis by the state, including any agency, authority, department, bureau, or instrumentality thereof, or by any entity covered under the state system of personnel administration created by Chapter 20 of this title. Such term shall also include all employees, officials, or administrators of any public school system, including, but not limited to, primary, secondary, and postsecondary institutions operated by local or independent boards of education that receive any funds from the State of Georgia or any agency thereof.
(6) "Public employer" means any state agency, department, board, bureau, or other instrumentality. This term also includes any agency covered under the state system of personnel administration created by Chapter 20 of this title or any public school system, including, but not limited to, primary, secondary, and postsecondary institutions operated by local or independent boards of education that receive any funds from the State of Georgia or any agency thereof.
(7) "Public employment" means employment by any public employer.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-83, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 2, eff. 5/5/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
