# § 45-23-4. Suspension or termination of public employee convicted of drug offense

(a) Any public employee who is convicted for the first time, under the laws of this state, the United States, or any other state, of any criminal offense involving the manufacture, distribution, sale, or possession of a controlled substance, marijuana, or a dangerous drug shall be suspended from his or her public employment for a period of not less than two months. Any such employee shall be required as a condition of completion of suspension to complete a drug abuse treatment and education program licensed under Chapter 5 of Title 26 and approved by:
  (1) the State Personnel Board in the case of employees employed by departments or agencies subject to the board's rules and regulations, as such terms are defined in Code Section 45-20-2; or
  (2) the public employer having management and control of the employee in the case of other public employees.
(b) Any public employee who is convicted for a second or subsequent time, under the laws of this state, the United States, or any other state, of any criminal offense involving the manufacture, distribution, sale, or possession of a controlled substance, marijuana, or a dangerous drug shall be terminated from his or her public employment and shall be ineligible for other public employment for a period of five years from the most recent date of conviction.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 630,§ 2-84, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 155,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2009.
