# § 14-11-709. Revocation of certificate; notice to company; issuance and effect of certificate of revocation; service after revocation

(a) If the Secretary of State determines that one or more grounds exist under Code Section 14-11-708 for revocation of a certificate of authority, the Secretary of State shall provide the foreign limited liability company with written notice of such determination by mailing a copy of the notice, first-class mail, to the foreign limited liability company at the address of its principal place of business indicated in its most recently filed annual registration, or if no annual registration has been filed, in its application for a certificate of authority to transact business, or to its registered agent.
(b) If the foreign limited liability company does not correct each ground for revocation or demonstrate to the reasonable satisfaction of the Secretary of State that each ground determined by the Secretary of State does not exist within 60 days after the notice is provided to the foreign limited liability company, the Secretary of State may revoke the foreign limited liability company's certificate of authority by signing a certificate of revocation that recites the ground or grounds for revocation and its effective date.
(c) The authority of a foreign limited liability company to transact business in this state ceases on the date shown on the certificate revoking its certificate of authority.
(d) The Secretary of State's revocation of a foreign limited liability company's certificate of authority appoints the Secretary of State as the foreign limited liability company's agent for service of process in any proceeding based on a cause of action which arose during the time the foreign limited liability company was authorized to transact business in this state. Service of process on the Secretary of State under this subsection is service on the foreign limited liability company. Any party that serves process on the Secretary of State shall also mail a copy of the process to the foreign limited liability company at the most recent address of its principal place of business listed on the records of the Secretary of State or to its registered agent. This subsection does not prescribe the only means, or necessarily the required means, of serving any process, notice, or demand required or permitted by law to be served on a foreign limited liability company.
(e) Revocation of a foreign limited liability company's certificate of authority does not terminate the authority of the registered agent of the foreign limited liability company.
