# § 14-11-705. Name

(a) A foreign limited liability company may apply for a certificate of authority with the Secretary of State under any name, whether or not it is the name under which it is registered in its jurisdiction of organization; provided, however, that such name:
  (1) Must contain the words "limited liability company" or "limited company" (it being permitted to abbreviate the word "limited" as "ltd." and the word "company" as "co.") or the abbreviations "L.L.C.," "LLC," "L.C." or "LC"; and
  (2) Must be distinguishable on the records of the Secretary of State from the name of any corporation, limited liability company, or limited partnership; any foreign corporation, foreign limited liability company, or foreign limited partnership having a certificate of authority to transact business in this state; any nonprofit corporation, professional corporation, or professional association, domestic or foreign, on file with the Secretary of State pursuant to this title; or any name reserved or registered under this title.
(b) Whenever a foreign limited liability company is unable to procure a certificate of authority to transact business in this state because its name does not comply with paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of this Code section, it may nonetheless apply for authority to transact business in this state by adding in parentheses to its name in such application a word, abbreviation, or other distinctive and distinguishing element such as the name of the jurisdiction where it is organized. If in the judgment of the Secretary of State the name of the foreign limited liability company with such addition would comply with subsection (a) of this Code section, subsection (a) of this Code section shall not be a bar to the issuance to such foreign limited liability company of a certificate of authority to transact business in this state. In such case, any such certificate issued to such foreign limited liability company shall be issued in its name with such additions, and the foreign limited liability company shall use such name with such additions in all its dealings with the Secretary of State.

## History

Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 9, § 14, eff. 5/14/2003.
