# § 2-23-6.1. Bond requirements; breach of bond; hearing; enforcement; insufficient bond funds

(a) Any applicant for a hemp processor permit shall make and deliver to the Commissioner a surety bond executed by a surety corporation authorized to transact business in this state and approved by the Commissioner. Any and all bond applications shall be accompanied by a certificate of good standing issued by the Commissioner of Insurance. If any company issuing a bond shall be removed from doing business in this state, it shall be the duty of the Commissioner of Insurance to notify the Commissioner within 30 days. The bond shall be in such amount as the Commissioner may determine, not exceeding an amount equal to 2 percent of the amount of hemp purchased from hemp grower licensees by the permittee in the most recent calendar year; provided, however, that the minimum amount of such bond shall be $20,000.00 and the maximum amount shall be $1 million. Such bond shall be upon a form prescribed or approved by the Commissioner and shall be conditioned to secure the faithful accounting for and payment to hemp grower licensees for hemp purchased by such permittee as well as to secure the permittee's compliance with the requirements of this chapter. Whenever the Commissioner shall determine that a previously approved bond has for any cause become insufficient, the Commissioner may require an additional bond or bonds to be given in compliance with this Code section. Unless the additional bond or bonds are given within the time fixed by written demand therefor, or if the bond of a permittee is canceled, the permit of such permittee shall be immediately revoked by operation of law without notice or hearing, and such permittee shall be ineligible to reapply for such permit for a period of four years after such revocation.
(b) Any person claiming that he or she has been damaged by a breach of the conditions of a bond given by a permittee may file a complaint with the Commissioner. Such complaint shall be a written statement of the facts constituting the complaint and must be made within 180 days of the alleged breach. If the Commissioner determines that the complaint is prima facie a breach of the bond, and the matter cannot be amicably resolved within 15 days of the filing of the complaint, the Commissioner shall publish a solicitation for additional complaints regarding breaches of the bond for a period of not less than five consecutive issues in such publications as the Commissioner shall prescribe. Additional complaints must be filed within 60 days following initial public notification of a breach of the bond. Civil actions on the breach of such bond shall not be commenced less than 120 days nor more than 547 days from the initial date of public notification of such breach of the bond.
(c) Upon the filing of such complaint in the manner provided in this Code section, the Commissioner shall investigate the charges made and at his or her discretion order a hearing before him or her, giving the complainant and the respondent notice of the filing of such complaint and the time and place of such hearing. At the conclusion of the hearing, the Commissioner shall report his or her findings and render his or her conclusions upon the matter complained of to the complainant and respondent in each case, who shall have 15 days thereafter in which to make effective and satisfy the Commissioner's conclusions.
(d) If such settlement is not effected within such time, the Commissioner or the hemp grower licensee may bring an action to enforce the claim. If the hemp grower licensee is not satisfied with the ruling of the Commissioner, he or she may commence and maintain an action against the principal and surety on the bond of the parties complained of as in any civil action.
(e) If the bond or collateral posted is insufficient to pay in full the valid claims of hemp grower licensees, the Commissioner may direct that the proceeds of such bond shall be divided pro rata among such hemp grower licensees.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 498,§ 9, eff. 10/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2022.
Added by 2021 Ga. Laws 261,§ 5, eff. 5/7/2021.
