# § 2-23-7. Business agreements; transportation; reimbursement for crop destruction

(a) Every permittee shall at all times have in place written agreements with each hemp grower licensee governing their business relationship. Each permittee shall provide a copy of each such agreement, and any amendments thereto, to the department within ten days of execution of each such agreement or amendment thereto.
(b)
  (1)
    (A) All hemp being shipped, transported, or otherwise delivered into, within, or through this state must be accompanied by documentation sufficient to prove that the hemp being shipped, transported, or delivered:
      (i) Was lawfully produced under a state or tribal hemp plan approved by the United States Department of Agriculture, under a hemp license issued by the United States Department of Agriculture, or otherwise in accordance with federal regulations through the state or territory of the Indian tribe, as applicable; and
      (ii) Has a total delta-9-THC concentration that does not exceed the legal limit.
    (B) Any person shipping, transporting, or delivering hemp must also carry a bill of lading that includes:
      (i) Name and address of the owner of the hemp;
      (ii) Point of origin;
      (iii) Point of delivery, including name and address;
      (iv) Kind and quantity of packages or, if in bulk, the total quantity of hemp in the shipment; and
      (v) Date of shipment.
    (C) The person shipping, transporting, or delivering hemp must act in compliance with all state and federal laws and regulations.
  (2)
    (A) All hemp products being shipped into or transported within or through this state must be accompanied by documentation sufficient to prove that the hemp products being shipped or transported were produced from hemp that was lawfully produced under a state or tribal hemp plan approved by the United States Department of Agriculture, under a hemp license issued by the United States Department of Agriculture, or otherwise in accordance with federal regulations through the state or territory of the Indian tribe, as applicable.
    (B) Any person transporting hemp products must also carry a bill of lading that includes:
      (i) Name and address of the owner of the hemp products;
      (ii) Point of origin;
      (iii) Point of delivery, including name and address;
      (iv) Kind and quantity of packages or, if in bulk, the total quantity of hemp products in the shipment; and
      (v) Date of shipment.
    (C) The person transporting hemp products must act in compliance with all state and federal laws and regulations.
(c) Until December 31, 2022, when a hemp grower licensee disposes of a lot pursuant to Code Section 2-23-8, the permittee with whom the hemp grower licensee has entered into an agreement pursuant to this Code section shall reimburse the hemp grower licensee for half of the amount of the combined value of the seed, fertilizer, labor costs, and any other reasonable and customary input expenses incurred with such disposed of lot.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 498,§ 11, eff. 10/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 782,§ 2, eff. 5/2/2022.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 261,§ 6, eff. 5/7/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 484,§ 5, eff. 7/22/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 314,§ 1, eff. 5/10/2019.
