# § 2-23-6.5. Genus Cannabis registered laboratory

(a) Any person desiring to perform in this state tests or analyses of any plant within the genus Cannabis, including but not limited to hemp, or any product made or derived from such plant, including but not limited to hemp products and consumable hemp products, shall register with the department as a registered laboratory and pay a one-time registration fee of $250.00.
(b) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, consideration, acceptance, and revocation of a registration made pursuant to this Code section shall be accomplished in accordance with Chapter 5 of this title, and such registration shall otherwise be governed by such chapter.
(c) Registration with the department as a registered laboratory shall be made on a form and in a manner as prescribed by the Commissioner. Such registration shall include, together with such other information as the Commissioner may require, the following information:
  (1) The name of the registrant;
  (2) The business address of the registrant;
  (3) The complete telephone number and email address of the registrant;
  (4) The location of the laboratory facility where the registrant will perform tests and analyses of any plant within the genus Cannabis or any product made or derived from such plant; and
  (5) If the registrant is a business entity, the name of the owner, partners, members, or shareholders of such entity.
(d) The department shall not accept a registration under this Code section unless the registrant demonstrates, to the department's satisfaction, that it is not affiliated with any licensee or permittee and has been accredited pursuant to the standards of the International Organization for Standardization for the competence, impartiality, and consistent operation of laboratories.
(e) Registrations made under this Code section shall be in connection with a single laboratory facility. For a person to perform tests or analyses of any plant within the genus Cannabis or any product made or derived from such plant at multiple laboratory facilities, such person shall be required to register each such laboratory facility with the department under this Code section.
(f) A registered laboratory, or any person employed by a registered laboratory, shall not be subject to arrest, prosecution, or any civil penalty for possessing, or having under his or her control, THC or marijuana, as such term is defined in Code Section 16-13-21, provided that such possession or control occurs in connection with a test or analysis performed in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by the department pursuant to this chapter.
(g) The department shall provide by rule and regulation a procedure by which registered laboratories shall dispose of plants or products within their possession that do not comply with the provisions of this chapter or are otherwise unlawful under the laws of this state.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 498,§ 10, eff. 10/1/2024.
