# § 2-23-6.3. Wholesale consumable hemp establishment licenses

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, consideration, issuance, and revocation of wholesale consumable hemp licenses issued by the department pursuant to this Code section shall be accomplished in accordance with Chapter 5 of this title, and such licenses shall otherwise be governed by such chapter.
(b) Applications for a wholesale consumable hemp license shall be made on a form furnished by the Commissioner and, together with such other information as the Commissioner may require, shall state:
  (1) The name of the applicant;
  (2) The business address of the applicant;
  (3) The complete telephone number and email address of the applicant;
  (4) The location of the facility where the applicant will store consumable hemp products and otherwise operate as a wholesaler of consumable hemp products in this state and whether such facility is owned or leased by the applicant; and
  (5) If the applicant is a business entity, the name of the owners, partners, members, or shareholders of such entity.
(c) Wholesale consumable hemp licenses shall be issued by the department for one calendar year at an annual licensing fee of at least $500.00 but not more than $10,000.00, as established by the Commissioner. The Commissioner may establish separate classes of wholesale consumable hemp licenses based on the amount of consumable hemp products to be sold by the licensee, and the annual licensing fees required by this subsection shall be in different amounts for each such separate class of wholesale consumable hemp licenses.
(d) Wholesale consumable hemp licenses issued by the department pursuant to this Code section shall be issued in connection with a single facility where the licensee will store consumable hemp products or otherwise operate as a wholesaler of consumable hemp products. For a person to store consumable hemp products or otherwise operate as a wholesaler of consumable hemp products at multiple facilities, such person shall be required to obtain from the department separate wholesale consumable hemp licenses for each such facility.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 498,§ 10, eff. 10/1/2024.
