# § 2-23-6.2. Retail consumable hemp establishment licenses

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, consideration, issuance, and revocation of retail consumable hemp establishment licenses issued by the department pursuant to this Code section shall be accomplished in accordance with Chapter 5 of this title, and such licenses shall otherwise be governed by such chapter.
(b) Applications for a retail consumable hemp establishment license shall be made on a form furnished by the Commissioner and, together with such other information as the Commissioner may require, shall state:
  (1) The name of the applicant;
  (2) The business address of the applicant;
  (3) The complete telephone number and email address of the applicant;
  (4) The location where the applicant will sell or offer for sale consumable hemp products in this state and whether such location is owned or leased by the applicant; and
  (5) If the applicant is a business entity, the name of the owners, partners, members, or shareholders of such entity.
(c) Retail consumable hemp establishment licenses shall be issued by the department for one calendar year at an annual licensing fee of $250.00.
(d) Retail consumable hemp establishment licenses issued by the department pursuant to this Code section shall be issued in connection with a single retail location where consumable hemp products will be sold or offered for sale to consumers by the licensee. For a person to sell or offer for sale consumable hemp products to consumers at multiple retail locations, such person shall be required to obtain from the department separate retail consumable hemp establishment licenses for each such retail location.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 498,§ 10, eff. 10/1/2024.
