# § 2-23-8. Sampling and random testing of hemp

(a)
  (1) The department shall have the right, either through its own personnel or through an independent contractor as provided for in Code Section 2-23-9, to collect samples of hemp for testing as provided for in this chapter from the fields and greenhouses of all hemp grower licensees. Samples shall be representative of each lot with the same global positioning coordinates. No hemp shall be harvested until such samples are collected. Such testing, and the harvesting of the hemp tested, shall be conducted in compliance with this chapter and with regulations promulgated by the department.
  (2) In the event that a test reveals that a sample of hemp has a total delta-9-THC concentration that exceeds the legal limit , the licensee's entire lot with the same global positioning coordinates shall be disposed of in compliance with this chapter and with regulations promulgated by the department.
(b)
  (1) The department shall, as provided for in Code Section 2-23-9, randomly test hemp products of the facilities of all permittees. Such testing shall be conducted in compliance with this chapter and with regulations promulgated by the department.
  (2) In the event that a test reveals that a sample of hemp products has a total delta-9-THC concentration that exceeds the legal limit , all related hemp products shall be disposed of in compliance with this chapter and with regulations promulgated by the department.
  (3) In the event that THC is removed from hemp during processing and not subsequently returned to hemp products produced from such hemp, such THC shall be disposed of in compliance with this chapter and with regulations promulgated by the department.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 498,§ 12, eff. 10/1/2024.
Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 261,§ 7, eff. 5/7/2021.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 484,§ 6, eff. 7/22/2020.
Added by 2019 Ga. Laws 314,§ 1, eff. 5/10/2019.
