# § 2-23-6.4. Manufacturer licenses

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, consideration, issuance, and revocation of manufacturer licenses issued by the department pursuant to this Code section shall be accomplished in accordance with Chapter 5 of this title, and such licenses shall otherwise be governed by such chapter.
(b) Applications for a manufacturer license shall be made on a form furnished by the Commissioner and, together with such other information as the Commissioner may require, shall state:
  (1) The name of the applicant;
  (2) The business address of the applicant;
  (3) The complete telephone number and email address of the applicant;
  (4) The location of the facility where the applicant will manufacture hemp products in this state and whether such facility is owned or leased by the applicant; and
  (5) If the applicant is a business entity, the name of the owners, partners, members, or shareholders of such entity.
(c) Manufacturer licenses shall be issued by the department for one calendar year at an annual licensing fee of $5,000.00; provided, however, that any person who holds a hemp processor permit issued by the department under this chapter shall not be required to pay the annual licensing fee provided for in this subsection in order for such person to be issued a manufacturer license by the department under this Code section.
(d) Manufacturer licenses issued by the department pursuant to this Code section shall be issued in connection with a single facility where the licensee will manufacture hemp products. For a person to manufacture hemp products at multiple facilities, such person shall be required to obtain from the department separate manufacturer licenses for each such facility.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 498,§ 10, eff. 10/1/2024.
