# § 49-4-182. Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Program created

(a) There is created the Georgia Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Program, which shall be known as the "Georgia TANF Program." The purpose of such program is to provide necessary assistance to needy families on a temporary basis and to provide parents, legal guardians, or other caretaker relatives of children with the necessary support services to enable such parents, legal guardians, or caretaker relatives to become self-sufficient and leave the program as soon as possible. After an initial assessment and once the state determines an applicant is ready for work, applicants for assistance shall be required to engage in a work activity in accordance with Part A of Title IV of the federal Social Security Act, as amended, and the state plan as soon as possible after making application for assistance, but in any event no later than 24 months after first receiving cash assistance.
(b) Assistance shall be provided in accordance with the state plan and any future amendments thereto. Cash assistance to a recipient who is not a minor child and who is a head of a household or married to the head of a household shall be limited to a lifetime maximum of 48 months, whether or not consecutive, beginning January 1, 1997.
(c) Nothing in this article, the state plan, or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant to this article shall be interpreted to entitle any individual or any family to assistance under the Georgia TANF Program.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 228,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2023.
