# § 49-4-151. Obtaining information for investigations and audits

(a) The commissioner, for the purposes of investigating the nature, amount, and extent of services provided to a recipient of medical assistance or auditing information submitted to the department concerning a provider's entitlement to an amount of medical assistance, is authorized, personally or by his duly authorized representative, to administer oaths and to examine and copy books, papers, records (medical, business, or otherwise), or memoranda of a provider or of any other person possessed of information relating to reimbursable costs claimed by a provider or otherwise relating to the amount of medical assistance to which a provider is entitled. The commissioner may compel such examinations by means of subpoenas issued to require the custodian of such items to produce them for examination. A subpoena may be served by any sheriff, by his deputy, or by any other person not less than 18 years of age. Proof may be shown by return of certificate endorsed on a copy of the subpoena. Subpoenas may also be served by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, and the return receipt shall constitute prima-facie proof of service. If any person shall fail to obey a subpoena issued and served under this subsection, then upon application of the commissioner, the superior court of the county in which such custodian was required to appear may issue an order requiring such custodian to comply with the subpoena and to produce the subpoenaed documentation. Furthermore, if any provider shall fail to obey a subpoena issued and served under this subsection with respect to any matter concerning a claim for medical assistance, that claim for medical assistance shall not be reimbursed by the Department of Community Health; and, if already reimbursed, the amount of medical assistance reimbursed shall be deducted from any amount of medical assistance which may then be or thereafter become payable to such provider.
(b) In the course of conducting investigations and audits, the Department of Community Health may request from any governmental department, board, commission, bureau, or agency information and assistance pertinent thereto. The Department of Community Health shall be entitled to have access to all such pertinent information which is within the custody of any governmental department, board, commission, bureau, or agency.
