# § 49-4-183. Administration of article by department; promulgation of rules and regulations by board; duties of department

(a) This article shall be administered by the Department of Human Services. The Board of Human Services shall issue such rules and regulations as may be necessary to administer this article properly and to comply with the requirements of Part A of Title IV of the federal Social Security Act, as amended, the state plan, and any future amendments to such Act or plan. The initial rules and regulations for the Georgia TANF Program shall be promulgated by the board pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and specifically Code Section 50-13-4 no later than July 1, 1997.
(b) The board shall ensure that such rules and regulations provide for:
  (1) Methods of administration necessary for the proper and efficient operation of the state plan for implementation of this article;
  (2) Reasonable standards for determining eligibility and the extent of assistance available for recipients;
  (3) Consideration of the income and resources of an applicant for assistance in determining eligibility;
  (4) Personal responsibility obligations and work activity requirements consistent with Part A of Title IV of the federal Social Security Act, as amended, and the state plan, provided that programs included in the personal responsibility obligations established by the board shall include counseling on abstinence until marriage;
  (5) Criteria which make an applicant ineligible to receive benefits under the Georgia TANF Program, including but not limited to those specified in Code Section 49-4-184;
  (6) Specific conduct which would authorize the reduction or termination of assistance to a recipient, including but not limited to that specified in Code Section 49-4-185;
  (7) Standards whereby certain obligations, requirements, and criteria will be waived for specific applicants or recipients based on hardship;
  (8) An administrative hearing process with hearings to be conducted by the Office of State Administrative Hearings in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," and subsection (b) of Code Section 49-4-13;
  (9) Safeguards which restrict the use and disclosure of information concerning applicants for and recipients of assistance under this article and in accordance with Code Section 49-4-14 and Part A of Title IV of the federal Social Security Act, as amended;
  (10) Immunizations for specified diseases for preschool age children as a condition of assistance being provided for such children, and the schedule of and standards for administering such immunizations, including the presentation of a certificate of immunization, unless:
    (A) There is appropriate evidence from the local health department or a physician that an immunization sequence has been started and can be completed within a period of up to 180 days, in which case a waiver of the immunization requirement for up to 180 days shall be granted;
    (B) After examination by the local board of health or a physician, any preschool age child is found to have a physical disability which may make vaccination undesirable, in which case a certificate to that effect issued by the local board of health or the physician may be accepted in lieu of a certificate of immunization and shall exempt the child from obtaining a certificate of immunization until the disability is relieved;
    (C) The parent or legal guardian furnishes an affidavit swearing or affirming that the immunization conflicts with the religious beliefs of the parent or legal guardian; or
    (D) The implementation of such an immunization requirement violates any federal law or regulations or would result in the loss of any federal funds to this state; and
  (11) The establishment and maintenance of individual development accounts. The funds in such accounts may be used for postsecondary educational expenses, the purchase of a first home, or business capitalization. The funds in such accounts shall not be considered in determining eligibility for cash assistance pursuant to 42 U.S.C. Section 604(h).
(c) The department shall:
  (1) Supervise the administration of assistance pursuant to the Georgia TANF Program by the division of family and children services;
  (2) Prescribe necessary forms and procedures to carry out the Georgia TANF Program, subject to the rules and regulations prescribed by the board pursuant to this article;
  (3) Publish in print or electronically an annual report and such interim reports as may be necessary. The annual report and such interim reports shall be provided to the Governor and members of the General Assembly. The department shall not be required to distribute copies of the annual report or the interim reports to the members of the General Assembly but shall notify the members of the availability of the reports in the manner which it deems to be most effective and efficient. The annual report and interim reports shall contain the following:
    (A) The total TANF caseload count;
    (B) Quarterly and annual TANF reports, in full, prepared for submission to the federal government;
    (C) The percentage of the TANF caseload and the number of individuals given a hardship exemption from the lifetime limit on cash assistance and a categorization of the reasons for such exemptions;
    (D) The number of individuals who received transportation assistance and the cost of such assistance;
    (E) The number of individuals who received diversionary assistance in order to prevent their requiring TANF assistance and the categories and cost of such diversionary assistance, and job acceptance and retention statistics;
    (F) The number of individuals denied assistance due to a serious violent felony conviction;
    (G) The number of mothers under 19 years of age who received assistance and their percentage of the total TANF caseload;
    (H) The number of children receiving subsidized child care and the total and average per recipient cost of child care provided to TANF recipients;
    (I) Data on teen pregnancy prevention;
    (J) The number of families sanctioned;
    (K) The number of legal immigrants receiving TANF benefits by category of immigration status;
    (L) The number of families no longer eligible because of time limits; and
    (M) Follow-up information on job retention and earnings. The information required under this paragraph shall be provided on a county-by-county basis where feasible; and
  (4) Develop a plan, on or before January 1, 1998, to provide incentives for employers to hire those TANF recipients who have difficulty in finding employment.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 228,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 333,§ 39, eff. 7/1/2005.
