# § 49-4-152.2. Rebates for sole-source and multiple-source drugs included in Controlled Medical Assistance Drug List

(a) The department is authorized to negotiate and enter into agreements directly with manufacturers and distributors whose prescription drug products are sold in the state for sole-source and multiple-source drugs to be paid for under the state plan for eligible recipients under this article. Such agreements shall provide for a periodic rebate of a negotiated percentage of the total product cost to be paid by the manufacturer or distributor of a specific product covered under the state plan.
(b) Prescription drug products shall be included in the Controlled Medical Assistance Drug List only upon satisfaction and completion of the application and approval process established by the department. Those products for which a rebate has been successfully negotiated shall automatically be included in the Controlled Medical Assistance Drug List for a period of time conterminous with the negotiated rebate.
(c) If there has been a failure to negotiate or renew a rebate agreement for a specific prescription drug product, the pharmaceutical manufacturer or distributor of that product shall disclose to the department its most favorable pricing arrangements available to state and nonstate government purchasers of such products. If the department determines that the product needs to be included in the Controlled Medical Assistance Drug List, the department shall establish the amount of the rebate for such product based upon the price information provided by the manufacturer or distributor. The determination as to whether a product should be included in the Controlled Medical Assistance Drug List shall be based upon the product's efficacy, cost, medical necessity, and safety.
(d) The provisions of this Code section shall be construed in conformity with Code Section 49-4-157.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 49, eff. 2/24/2013.
