# § 49-4-146.3. Civil forfeiture of property and proceeds obtained through Medicaid fraud

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Civil forfeiture proceeding" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 9-16-2.
  (2) "Medicaid fraud" means:
    (A) A violation of Code Section 49-4-146.1; or
    (B) A violation relating to the obtaining of medical assistance benefits or payments under this article of any provision of:
      (i) Chapter 8 of Title 16, relating to offenses involving theft;
      (ii) Code Section 16-10-20, relating to false statements and writings, concealment of facts, and fraudulent documents in matters within jurisdiction of state or political subdivisions; or
      (iii) Code Section 16-10-21, relating to conspiracy to defraud the state or its political subdivisions.
  (3) "Proceeds" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 9-16-2.
  (4) "Property" shall have the same meaning as set forth in Code Section 9-16-2.
(b) Any property which is directly or indirectly obtained by a person or entity through or as a result of Medicaid fraud in the provision of services or equipment under this article and any proceeds shall be subject to civil forfeiture proceedings in accordance with Chapter 16 of Title 9. This Code section shall not apply to cases involving alleged fraud by Medicaid recipients in obtaining medical assistance benefits.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 3-29, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 191, § 36, eff. 7/1/2001.
