# § 49-4-161. Definitions

(1) "Asset disregard" means, with regard to state Medicaid benefits, the disregard of any assets or resources in an amount equal to the insurance benefit payments that are made to or on behalf of an individual who is a beneficiary under a qualified long-term care insurance partnership policy.
(2) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Insurance.
(3) "Department" means the Department of Community Health.
(4) "Georgia Qualified Long-term Care Partnership Program approved policy" means a long-term care insurance policy that meets the model regulations and requirements of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners' long-term care insurance model regulation and long-term care insurance model act as specified in 42 U.S.C. Section 1917(b) and Section 6021 of the Federal Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 and the Commissioner certifies such policy as meeting these requirements.
(5) "State Medicaid program" means the medical assistance program established in this state under Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act.
(6) "State plan amendment" means a state Medicaid plan amendment made to the federal Department of Health and Human Services that provides for the disregard of any assets or resources in an amount equal to the insurance benefit payments that are made to or on behalf of an individual who is a beneficiary under a qualified long-term care insurance partnership policy.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 8,§ 49, eff. 4/14/2009.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 505,§ 1, eff. 4/19/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 49, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2005 Ga. Laws 159,§ 1, eff. 5/5/2005.
