# § 49-4-192. Establishment of pilot LEARNFARE program

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Program" means the LEARNFARE program established in this Code section.
  (2) "Teen-ager" means a person at least 13 years of age but not more than 16 years of age who is included in a grant of TANF assistance, who is residing with a parent or guardian, and who has not graduated from high school or received a state approved high school equivalency (HSE) diploma.
(b) The purpose of this Code section is to establish a pilot LEARNFARE program that requires school attendance of all teen-agers.
(c) The department shall establish in not less than ten counties in this state a pilot LEARNFARE program. Such program shall require school attendance of all teen-agers.
(d) A teen-ager who is required to attend school to meet LEARNFARE participation requirements under this Code section shall comply except when there is good cause shown, as defined by the department.
(e) Upon determination that a teen-ager has failed without good cause to attend school as required, the teen-ager will be removed from the TANF grant for the next possible payment month.
(f) A sanction applied under this program shall be effective for one month for each month that the teen-ager failed to meet the monthly attendance requirement, as established by the department. In the case of a teen-ager who drops out of school, the sanction shall remain in force until the teen-ager provides written proof from the school system that the teen-ager has re-enrolled and has met the monthly attendance requirement for one calendar month.
(g) The department shall adopt not later than July 1, 1997, such rules and regulations as may be necessary to implement this program. The department shall establish by appropriate rules and regulations the eligibility and participation guidelines for such program.
(h) The department shall further provide, no later than January 1, 1999, a written report to the General Assembly which shall describe all actions taken to implement this program and the results and findings derived therefrom.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 353,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2023.
