# § 49-4-171. Hearing on petition; appointment, duties, and removal of representative; court costs waived

The court shall summarily order a hearing on the petition and shall cause the applicant or recipient to be served personally with a copy of the petition and order at least five days in advance of the time and place for the hearing. Findings of fact shall be made by the court without a jury; and if the court shall find that the applicant for or recipient of assistance under this chapter or the payee, in the case of temporary assistance for needy families, is unable to manage the assistance payments or otherwise fails so to manage to the extent that deprivation or hazard to himself or herself or others results or, in the case of temporary assistance for needy families, the payment is not being used for the benefit of the children or the pregnant woman, the court may thereupon enter an order embracing such findings and appointing some responsible person as a personal representative of the applicant or recipient or of the payee, in the case of temporary assistance for needy families, for the purposes set forth in this article; provided, however, that no employee of the Department of Human Services shall be eligible to hold such appointment. The personal representative so appointed shall serve without bond and without compensation. He or she shall be responsible for receiving the monthly assistance payment and using the proceeds of such payment for the benefit of the recipient of assistance under this chapter or, in the case of temporary assistance for needy families, for the application of the payment to the best interest of the children, the pregnant woman, or both. Such personal representative shall be responsible to the court for the faithful discharge of the duties of his or her trust. The court may consider the recommendation of the county director of family and children services in the selection of a suitable person for appointment as personal representative for the limited purposes of this Code section. The personal representative so appointed may be removed by the court and the proceedings dismissed or another suitable personal representative appointed. All costs of court with respect to any such proceeding shall be waived.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 228,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
