# § 49-4-181. Definitions

(1) "Applicant" means a person who applies for assistance under the state plan.
(2) "Assistance" means the temporary assistance provided to needy families in accordance with Part A of Title IV of the federal Social Security Act, as amended, regulations promulgated pursuant thereto by the secretary of health and human services, all applicable laws of this state, the state plan, and regulations of the Board of Human Services.
(3) "Board" means the Board of Human Services.
(4) "Cash assistance" means the money payment component of TANF assistance.
(5) "Department" means the Department of Human Services.
(6) "Family" means a pregnant woman or one or more children living with a responsible parent, both parents, or other caretaker relative or legal guardian.
(7) "Recipient" means a person who receives assistance pursuant to the state plan.
(8) "State plan" means the plan submitted by the State of Georgia to the secretary of health and human services, pursuant to Part A of Title IV of the federal Social Security Act, as amended, particularly by the Act of August 22, 1996, Public Law 104-193, the Personal Responsibility and Work Opportunity Reconciliation Act of 1996, as amended.
(9) "TANF" means temporary assistance for needy families.
(10) "Work activity" means a work activity as defined by Part A of Title IV of the federal Social Security Act, as amended. The term currently includes any of the following:
  (A) Unsubsidized employment;
  (B) Subsidized private sector employment;
  (C) Subsidized public sector employment;
  (D) Work experience, including work associated with the refurbishing of publicly assisted housing, if sufficient private sector employment is not available;
  (E) On-the-job training;
  (F) Job search and job readiness assistance, but such activity by a recipient shall be limited to no more than six weeks, only four weeks of which may be consecutive, unless the state's unemployment rate is 50 percent above the national average, in which case such activity shall be limited to no more than 12 weeks, only four weeks of which may be consecutive;
  (G) Community service programs;
  (H) Vocational educational training, not to exceed 12 months with respect to any individual;
  (I) Job skills training directly related to employment;
  (J) Education directly related to employment, in the case of a recipient who has not received a high school diploma or a certificate of high school equivalency;
  (K) Satisfactory attendance at secondary school or in a course of study leading to a certificate of general equivalence, in the case of a recipient who has not completed secondary school or received such a certificate of high school equivalency; and
  (L) The provision of child care services to an individual who is participating in a community service program. In the event the definition of work activities in Part A of Title IV of the federal Social Security Act is amended to delete from or add to the list of activities contained in this paragraph, any such change or changes shall be incorporated into this paragraph. The minimum average number of hours per week of such work activity for not less than the percentage of recipients comprising the minimum work participation rate in a given federal fiscal year shall be as follows:If the month is in federal fiscal yearThe minimum average number of hours per week is:1997.............................201998.............................201999................................252000 or thereafter............................................30
(11) "Work participation rate" means the percentage of TANF recipients who are required to engage in a work activity in accordance with Part A of Title IV of the federal Social Security Act, as amended. The minimum work participation rate with respect to all families receiving assistance under the Georgia TANF Program shall be, in accordance with current federal law, as follows: If the federal fiscal year is:The minimum participation rate is:1997.............................25%1998.............................30%1999.............................35%2000.............................40%2001.............................45%2002 or thereafter.............................50%The minimum work participation rate with respect to two-parent families receiving assistance under the Georgia TANF Program shall be, in accordance with current federal law, as follows:If the federal fiscal year is:The minimum participation rate is:1997..................................................75%1998..................................................75%1999 or thereafter.............................90%Provided, however, that the work participation rates reflected in this paragraph may be adjusted due to caseload reductions in accordance with Part A of Title IV of the federal Social Security Act, as amended.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 228,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-3, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-2, eff. 7/1/2009.
