# § 49-4-147.1. Claims by department against estate of Medicaid recipients

(a) In accordance with applicable federal law and regulations, including those under Title XIX of the federal Social Security Act, the department may make claim against the estate of a Medicaid recipient for the amount of any medical assistance payments made on such person's behalf by the department. A claim shall be made against the estate of a deceased Medicaid recipient only if at the time of application for medical assistance the applicant received written notice that the medical assistance costs could be recovered from the applicant's estate and the applicant signed a written acknowledgment of receipt of such notice, the estate is otherwise subject to recovery, and if no hardship or other exemption exists. The commissioner shall waive such claim if he or she determines enforcement of the claim would result in substantial and unreasonable hardship to dependents of the individual against whose estate the claim exists.
(b) The estate recovery program established pursuant to this Code section shall not be effective any earlier than May 3, 2006. In no event shall the department make claims against the estate of a Medicaid recipient for the amount of any medical assistance payments made on such person's behalf prior to May 3, 2006.
(c) The commissioner shall delay execution of a claim against the estate where the dependents or heirs agree to pay the full amount of the claim in reasonable installments.
(d) To prevent substantial and unreasonable hardship, the commissioner shall waive any claim against the first $25,000.00 of any estate. No later than July 1, 2018, the department shall submit to the United States Department of Health and Human Services Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services an amendment to the state plan reflecting the provisions of this subsection. In the event that such amendment to the state plan is not approved, this subsection shall stand repealed in its entirety.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 355,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2018.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 760,§ 3, eff. 5/3/2006.
