# § 49-4-22. Eligibility for aid under federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program

(a) An individual who was convicted under any state or federal law of an offense which has as an element the possession, use, or distribution of a controlled substance, as such term is defined in Code Section 16-13-21, and which is or would be classified as a felony under the laws of this state shall not be eligible for the federal Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program while he or she is serving any term of imprisonment. If such individual was not sentenced to imprisonment, he or she shall be eligible for such program, provided that he or she remains compliant with the applicable general and special conditions of probation imposed. If such individual is sentenced to a term of imprisonment, after release from confinement, he or she shall be eligible for such program, provided that he or she remains compliant with the applicable general and special conditions of probation or parole imposed. If such individual violates the terms of probation as determined by court order or violates the terms of parole as determined by an order of the State Board of Pardons and Paroles, he or she shall lose eligibility for such program. If such individual successfully completes the original sentence imposed, he or she shall remain eligible for such program.
(b) Any individual eligible for aid pursuant to this Code section shall be required to meet all other requirements for eligibility for such program.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 460,§ 11-1, eff. 7/1/2016.
