# § 40-13-2.1. Signature on citations required; effect of failure to sign; exemption for out-of-state drivers; electronic capture of signature

(a) A person who is issued a citation as provided in this chapter or Code Section 17-6-11, relating to display of driver's license in lieu of bail, shall sign the citation to acknowledge receipt of the citation and of his or her obligation to appear for trial. The officer shall advise the person that signing the citation is not an admission of guilt and that failure to sign will result in the person having to post a cash bond. If the person refuses to sign the citation, it shall constitute reasonable cause to believe that the person will not appear at trial and the officer may bring the person before a judicial officer or traffic violations bureau to post a bond as is otherwise provided by law.
(b) The provisions of subsection (a) of Code Section 17-6-11 shall not apply to a person in possession of a driver's license issued by a state or foreign country or political subdivision of a foreign country that has not entered into a reciprocal agreement regarding the operation of motor vehicles with this state as provided in Chapter 5 of Title 40, which provides for the suspension of a driver's license by the other state or foreign country or political subdivision of a foreign country of a person who fails to appear for trial of a traffic offense committed in this state.
(c) The signature of any person to whom a citation is issued may be captured electronically.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 468,§ 2-5, eff. 6/30/2020.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 633,§ 25, eff. 7/1/2010.
