# § 40-13-26. How sentences for traffic offenses served; disposition of fines and costs; definition of "urban interstate system"

(a) Defendants who plead guilty or who are convicted under this article shall be required to serve their sentences in such manner as is provided for by law in misdemeanor cases. In case a fine is imposed and paid, the officers of court, where on fee basis, shall first be paid their costs arising in such case. After the payment of all costs, the remainder of such fine shall be paid into the county treasury in the event the case is disposed of by the probate court; if the case is disposed of by the municipal court of an incorporated municipality, the remainder of such fine or fines shall be paid into the treasury of the municipality where the court is located, except that where such courts have jurisdiction beyond the corporate limits of a municipality, and the offense occurs outside the municipality, the fine shall be paid into the county treasury; provided, however, that in any case where a fine was imposed for violation of any traffic offense provided in or authorized by Chapter 6 of this title on any "urban interstate system" if the arrest or citation in such case was made or issued by a member of the Uniform Division of the Department of Public Safety's motorcycle enforcement unit, the remainder of such fine shall be remitted to the Department of Public Safety for the maintenance and enhancement of the Department's motorcycle program. The judge of the probate court or the person presiding over the municipal court must pay into the county treasury, municipal treasury, or Department of Public Safety by the fifteenth day of each month the remainder of all fines for the preceding month. Such payment must be accompanied by a list showing the name of the defendant in each case, the fine imposed in each case, the costs in each case and to whom paid, and the balance which is being paid into the treasury. The official making such payment must be given a written receipt by the person receiving the payment. No officer receiving a salary will receive any fees for arresting or attending court in any case arising under this article, but the usual fees must be assessed, and, if the arresting officer is not entitled to the costs, they must go to the county or city to which the fine is paid or Department of Public Safety as required by this Code section.
(b) As used in this Code section, the term "urban interstate system" means a portion of the national system of interstate and defense highways which:
  (1) Is located entirely within any part of this state; and
  (2) Includes a single numbered interstate highway which forms a closed loop or perimeter. Where these conditions exist, the urban interstate system shall consist of the interstate highway constituting the closed loop or perimeter and all interstate highways or portions thereof located within such loop or perimeter, not including any portion of any interstate highway outside of the loop or perimeter.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 470,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
See 2010 Ga. Laws 368, § 2-2.
See 2010 Ga. Laws 368, § 2-1.
