# § 47-22-1. Definitions

(1) "Accumulated contributions" means the sum of all amounts deducted from the compensation of a member's salary and credited to such member's individual account in this plan, together with earnings thereon as provided in this chapter.
(2) "Board" means the Board of Trustees of the Employees' Retirement System of Georgia.
(3) "Defined contribution plan" means a plan which provides for an individual account for each participant and for benefits based solely on the amount contributed to the participant's account; any income, expenses, gains, and losses; and any forfeiture of accounts of other participants which may be allocated to such participant's account, which plan is intended to be qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code, 42 U.S.C. Section 401(a).
(4) "Employee" means any employee of an employer who is not a member of any public retirement or pension system created pursuant to this title; provided, however, the following persons shall not be considered employees under this paragraph:
  (A) A person performing services for an institution in which such person is duly enrolled as a full-time student;
  (B) A person performing services for an employer pursuant to a contract as a bona fide independent contractor; or
  (C) Members of any state board or commission.
(5) "Employer" means the state or any department, bureau, institution, board, or commission of the state, the State Board of Education, and the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia.
(6) "Member" means any employee included in the membership of the plan.
(7) "Plan" means the Georgia Defined Contribution Plan created by this chapter.
(8) "Plan year" means the 12 month period beginning July 1 of each year.

## History

Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 275,§ 29, eff. 5/11/2009.
