# § 36-88-6. Criteria for enterprise zone

(a) In order to be designated as an enterprise zone, a nominated area shall meet at least three of the five criteria specified in subsections (b), (c), (d), (e), and (f), or the criteria specified in subsection (g) of this Code section. In determining whether an area suffers from poverty, unemployment, or general distress, the governing body shall use data from the most current United States decennial census and from other information published by the United States Bureau of the Census, the Federal Bureau of Labor Statistics, and the Georgia Department of Labor. In determining whether an area suffers from underdevelopment, the governing body shall use the data specified in subsection (e) of this Code section. The data shall be comparable in point or period of time and methodology employed.
(b) Pervasive poverty shall be evidenced by showing that poverty is widespread throughout the nominated area and shall be established by using the following criteria:
  (1) The poverty rate shall be determined from the data in the most current United States decennial census prepared by the United States Bureau of the Census;
  (2) For parcels within the nominated area, the parcels must be within or adjacent to a census block group where the ratio of income to poverty level for at least 15 percent of the residents shall be less than 1.0;
  (3) Census geographic block groups with no population shall be treated as having a poverty rate which meets the standards of paragraph (2) of this subsection; and
  (4) All parcels of a nominated area must abut and may not contain a noncontiguous parcel, unless such nonabutting parcel qualifies separately under the criteria set forth under paragraph (2) of this subsection.
(c) Unemployment shall be evidenced by the use of data published by the Office of Labor Information Systems of the Georgia Department of Labor indicating that the average rate of unemployment for the nominated area for the preceding calendar year is at least 10 percent higher than the state average rate of unemployment or by evidence of adverse economic conditions brought about by significant job dislocation within the nominated area such as the closing of a manufacturing plant or federal facility.
(d) General distress shall be evidenced by adverse conditions within the nominated area other than those of pervasive poverty and unemployment. Examples of such adverse conditions include, but are not limited to, a high incidence of crime, abandoned or dilapidated structures, deteriorated infrastructure, and substantial population decline.
(e) Underdevelopment shall be evidenced by data indicating development activities, or lack thereof, through land disturbance permits, business license fees, building permits, development fees, or other similar data indicating that the level of development in the nominated area is lower than development activity within the local governing body's jurisdiction.
(f) General blight within the nominated area shall be evidenced by the inclusion of any portion of the nominated area in an urban redevelopment area as defined by paragraph (20) of Code Section 36-61-2 for which an urban redevelopment plan has been adopted by the affected governing bodies according to the requirements of Chapter 61 of this title.
(g)
  (1) A nominated area under this subsection shall:
    (A) Be included in an urban redevelopment area as defined by paragraph (23) of Code Section 36-61-2; and
    (B) Contain within its borders the site for a redevelopment project having a minimum of $400 million in capital investment for the redevelopment of an area certified by the commissioner to have been chronically underdeveloped for a period of 20 years or more.
  (2) Any nominated area meeting the criteria in paragraph (1) of this subsection may be designated as an enterprise zone. Any redevelopment project used to qualify an area for designation as an enterprise zone under this subsection shall, upon approval of such designation, qualify for an exemption of any sales and use tax levied within the boundaries of such project.
  (3) Any variation in the sales price of goods and services within any redevelopment project used to qualify an area for designation as an enterprise zone under this subsection attributable to lease arrangements between a retailer and the owner of the project shall be a permitted practice under Parts 1 and 2 of Article 15 of Chapter 1 of Title 10.
  (4) By resolution or ordinance, the local governing body designating and creating an enterprise zone under this subsection may assess and collect annual enterprise zone infrastructure fees from each retailer operating within the boundaries of the project in an amount not to exceed, in aggregate, the amount of sales and use tax on transactions of such retailer exempted under paragraph (2) of this subsection, which fees may be pledged by such local governing body, directly or indirectly, as security for revenue bonds issued for development or infrastructure within the enterprise zone.
  (5) This subsection shall not apply to projects involving or related to casino gambling.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 24,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 36, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 724, § 4, eff. 5/17/2004.
