# § 3-11-4. Violations

(a) It shall be unlawful for a food caterer to distribute or sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wine off the premises of the food caterer's business without a license issued pursuant to this chapter. This subsection shall not affect any other provisions of this title which may require a food caterer who has a license to sell alcoholic beverages on the premises of the food caterer's business.
(b) It shall be unlawful for a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer licensed under this chapter to distribute or sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wine off premises except in connection with an authorized catered function within the scope of the event permit.
(c)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to distribute or sell distilled spirits in any jurisdiction which does not permit the sale of distilled spirits by the drink for consumption only on the premises.
  (2) It shall be unlawful for a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to distribute or sell malt beverages or wine in any jurisdiction which does not permit the sale of malt beverages or wine by the drink for consumption only on the premises.
(d) It shall be unlawful for a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to distribute or sell distilled spirits, malt beverages, or wine during any hours in which the sale of alcoholic beverages by the drink for consumption only on the premises is not permitted in the jurisdiction.
(e) It shall be unlawful for a licensed alcoholic beverage caterer to employ any person under 21 years of age who, in the course of such employment, would dispense, serve, sell, or handle alcoholic beverages. It is the intent of this subsection to prevent any person employed by such caterer, or any other employee, to knowingly violate any prohibitions contained in Code Section 3-3-23, relating to furnishing alcoholic beverages to, and purchase and possession of alcoholic beverages by, a person under 21 years of age.
(f) Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to authorize the sale of alcoholic beverages by a caterer in any jurisdiction where the sale of distilled spirits by the drink for consumption only on the premises has not been legalized.
(g) Any person violating the provisions of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
