# § 32-7-2. Procedure for abandonment

(a)
  (1) Before abandoning any public road on the state highway system, the department shall confer with the governing authority of the counties or municipalities concerned and give due consideration to their wishes in such abandonment; but in case of disagreement the judgment of the department shall prevail.
  (2) When it is determined that a section of the state highway system has for any reason ceased to be used by the public to the extent that no substantial public purpose is served by it and after having conferred with the counties and municipalities, the department, by certification signed by the commissioner and accompanied by a plat or sketch, may declare that section of the state highway system abandoned. Thereafter, that section of road shall no longer be a part of the state highway system and the rights of the public in and to the section of road as a public road shall cease.
  (3) Prior to certifying the abandonment of a road or section thereof, the department shall give notice of its intentions to the counties or municipalities through which such road passes.
  (4) If such county or municipality, by proper resolution, indicates its willingness and desire to take over the road that is proposed to be abandoned and to maintain such road, the certificate of abandonment shall so state; and thereafter the abandoned road shall form part of the county road or municipal street system of the particular county or municipality. Whenever the department abandons a road and a county or a municipality takes over the road, the department shall convey, by quitclaim deed executed by the commissioner, such road to the county or municipality. If the appropriate county or municipality is unwilling to take over the road and maintain it, the property may be disposed of by the department as provided in Code Section 32-7-4, provided that, if the county or municipality has not indicated its desire to take over the road within 30 days after receiving notice, it shall be conclusively presumed that the county or municipality is unwilling to take over the road; and provided, further, that before the department disposes of the abandoned road it shall give 15 days' notice to the county or municipality, during which time such county or municipality may reconsider its decision and take over the road.
(b)
  (1) When it is determined that a section of the county road system has for any reason ceased to be used by the public to the extent that no substantial public purpose is served by it or that its removal from the county road system is otherwise in the best public interest, the county, by certification recorded in its minutes, accompanied by a plat or sketch, and, after notice to property owners located thereon, after notice of such determination is published in the newspaper in which the sheriff's advertisements for the county are published once a week for a period of two weeks, and after a public hearing on such issue, may declare that section of the county road system abandoned. Thereafter, that section of road shall no longer be part of the county road system and the rights of the public in and to the section of road as a public road shall cease.
  (2) Prior to certifying the abandonment of a road or section thereof, the county shall give notice of its intention to the municipality into which or through which any part of such road passes.
  (3) If such municipality, by proper resolution, indicates its willingness and desire to take over the road that is proposed to be abandoned and to maintain such road, the certification of abandonment shall so state; and thereafter that part of the abandoned road within the municipality shall form part of the municipal street system of the particular municipality. Whenever a county abandons a road and a municipality takes over the road, the county, by quitclaim deed executed by the chairman or presiding officer, shall convey such road to the municipality. If such municipality is unwilling to take over the road and maintain it, the property may be disposed of by the county as provided for in Code Section 32-7-4, provided that, if the municipality has not indicated its desire to take over the road within 30 days after receiving notice, it shall be conclusively presumed the municipality is unwilling to take over the road; and provided, further, that before the county disposes of the abandoned road it shall give 15 days' notice to the municipality during which time such municipality may reconsider its decision and take over the road.
(c) When it is determined that a section of the municipal street system has for any reason ceased to be used by the public to the extent that no substantial public purpose is served by it or that its removal from the municipal street system is otherwise in the best public interest, the municipality, by certification recorded in its minutes, accompanied by a plat or sketch, and after notice to property owners located thereon, may declare that section of the municipal street system abandoned. Thereafter, that section of road shall no longer be a part of the municipal street system and the rights of the public in and to that section of street as a public road shall cease. The property may be disposed of by the municipality as provided in Code Section 32-7-4.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 443,§ 1, eff. 6/4/2010.
