# § 10-13A-8. Documentation to be supplied by distributor; cooperation between commissioner and Attorney General; promulgation of regulations

(a) Not later than ten calendar days after the end of each calendar month, and more frequently if so directed by the Attorney General, each distributor shall submit such information as the Attorney General requires to facilitate compliance with this chapter, including, but not limited to, a list by brand family of the total number of cigarettes, or, in the case of "roll-your-own," the equivalent count, for which the distributor affixed tax stamps during the previous calendar month or otherwise paid the tax due for such cigarettes. The distributor shall also certify that the information provided to the Attorney General is complete and accurate. The distributor shall maintain and make available to the Attorney General all invoices and documentation of sales of all nonparticipating manufacturer cigarettes and any other information relied upon in reporting to the Attorney General for a period of five years.
(b) Notwithstanding any law to the contrary, the commissioner and the Attorney General are authorized to disclose to each other any information received under this chapter, Chapter 13 of this title, and Title 48 for the purposes of determining compliance with and enforcing the provisions of this chapter, Chapter 13 of this title, and Title 48. The commissioner and Attorney General may also share such information with other federal, state, or local courts or agencies for purposes of enforcing the provisions of this chapter, Chapter 13 of this title, or the corresponding laws of other states. The commissioner and Attorney General may also disclose information provided under this Code section, Chapter 13 of this title, and Title 48 that may otherwise be confidential:
  (1) In discharge of the duty to enforce or defend the provisions of this part or Chapter 13 of this title;
  (2) In the course of any litigation, arbitration, or proceeding related to this part, Chapter 13 of this title, the Master Settlement Agreement, or the NPM Adjustment Settlement Agreement; or
  (3) In complying with provisions in the NPM Adjustment Settlement Agreement. Despite this disclosure, the information shall maintain its confidential status.
(c) Any tobacco sales data provided by another state, a tobacco product manufacturer, or other person or entity to a data clearing-house pursuant to the NPM Adjustment Settlement Agreement that is also provided to the Attorney General or commissioner pursuant to that agreement shall be treated as confidential tax information as defined in Title 48. This subsection only applies to information received by the Attorney General or commissioner solely as a result of the NPM Adjustment Settlement Agreement.
(d) The Attorney General may require at any time from the nonparticipating manufacturer proof from the financial institution in which such manufacturer has established a qualified escrow fund for the purpose of compliance with Chapter 13 of this title of the amount of money in such fund, exclusive of interest, the amount and date of each deposit to such fund, and the amount and date of each withdrawal from such fund.
(e) In addition to the information required to be submitted pursuant to this chapter, the Attorney General may require a distributor, stamping agent, or tobacco product manufacturer to submit any additional information or documentation, including, but not limited to, samples of the packaging or labeling of each brand family, as is necessary to enable the Attorney General to determine whether a tobacco product manufacturer is in compliance with this chapter.
(f) To promote compliance with this chapter, the Attorney General may promulgate regulations. The Attorney General may also require production of information sufficient to enable the Attorney General to determine the adequacy of the amount of the quarterly or annual escrow deposit.

## History

Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 10, eff. 5/9/2017.
Renumbered from 10-13A-7mended and amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 472,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2016.
Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 98,§ 3-8, eff. 7/1/2015.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 367, § 1, eff. 7/1/2003.
