# § 9-2-25. Action against unincorporated association; service of process; venue; what property bound by judgment

(a) Actions may be maintained against and in the name of any unincorporated organization or association for any cause of action for or upon which the plaintiff therein may maintain such an action against the members of the organization or association.
(b) Service of process in the action against the organization or association shall be had by service upon any officer or official member of such organization or association, or upon any officer or official member of any branch or local of the organization or association, provided that any such organization or association may file with the Secretary of State a designated officer or agent upon whom service shall be had and his residence address within the state. If the designation is made and filed, service of process shall be had only on the officer or agent designated, if he can be found within the state.
(c) The organization or association shall be suable in any cause of action. The action may be maintained in any county where the organization or association does business or has in existence a branch or local organization.
(d) Where a judgment in such actions is rendered in favor of the plaintiff against the organizations or associations, the property of the organization or association shall be liable to the satisfaction of the judgment. No such judgment shall be enforced against the individual property of any member of an unincorporated association, unless the member has personally participated in the transaction for which the action was instituted and has been served with process as provided by law.
