# § 46-5-210. Definitions

(a) As used in this article, the term:
  (1) "Breach of telephone records" means the unauthorized acquisition of telephone records that compromises the security, confidentiality, or integrity of that information as maintained by the telecommunications company.
  (2) "End user" means any person, corporation, partnership, firm, municipality, cooperative, organization, governmental agency, building owner, or other entity provided with a telecommunications service for its own consumption and not for resale.
  (3) "Notice" means:
    (A) Written notice;
    (B) Electronic notice, if the notice provided is consistent with the provisions regarding electronic records and signatures set forth in Section 7001 of Title 15 of the United States Code; or
    (C) Substitute notice, if the telecommunications company demonstrates that the cost of providing notice would exceed $250,000.00, that the affected class to be notified exceeds 500,000 individuals, or that the telecommunications company does not have sufficient contact information to provide written or electronic notice to such individuals. Substitute notice shall consist of all of the following:
      (i) E-mail notice, if the telecommunications company has e-mail addresses for the individuals to be notified;
      (ii) Conspicuous posting of the notice on the telecommunications company's website, if the telecommunications company maintains one; and
      (iii) Notification to major state-wide media.
  (4) "Telephone record" means information retained by a telecommunications company that relates to the telephone number dialed by the customer, the number of telephone calls directed to a customer, or other data related to the telephone calls typically contained on a customer telephone bill, such as the time the calls started and ended, the duration of the calls, the time of day the calls were made, and any charges applied. For purposes of this article, any information collected and retained by, or on behalf of, customers utilizing caller identification or other similar technology does not constitute a telephone record.

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 648,§ 5, eff. 4/28/2006.
