# § 46-5-124.1. Service suppliers or Voice over Internet Protocol service suppliers must register certain information with the authority; updating information; compliance; notices of deficiency or noncompliance

(a) Any service supplier or Voice over Internet Protocol service supplier doing business in Georgia shall register the following information by January 1, 2019, with the authority:
  (1) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the service supplier or Voice over Internet Protocol service supplier to whom the resolution adopted pursuant to Code Section 46-5-133 or other notification of intent to provide automatic number identification or automatic location identification, or both, of a telephone service connection;
  (2) The name, address, and telephone number of the representative of the service supplier or Voice over Internet Protocol service supplier with whom a local government must coordinate to implement automatic number identification or automatic location identification, or both, of a telephone service connection;
  (3) The counties in Georgia in which the service supplier or Voice over Internet Protocol service supplier is authorized to provide and is actively providing telephone service at the time the filing is made; and
  (4) Every corporate name under which the service supplier or Voice over Internet Protocol service supplier is authorized to provide telephone service in Georgia.
(b) After the initial submission by each service supplier or Voice over Internet Protocol service supplier doing business in this state, if the information required by subsection (a) of this Code section changes, it shall be updated and submitted to the authority within 60 days of such change.
(c) Every service supplier or Voice over Internet Protocol service supplier shall comply with subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section. Any service supplier or Voice over Internet Protocol service supplier that fails to register and provide the information required by this Code section after receiving notice of the deficiency or noncompliance duly served upon the service supplier's or Voice over Internet Protocol service supplier's registered agent and failing to cure the deficiency or noncompliance within 60 days of receiving notice shall:
  (1) Not be eligible to receive cost recovery funds as provided in subsection (e) of Code Section 46-5-134 until the service supplier or Voice over Internet Protocol service supplier is in compliance with subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section;
  (2) Be subject to a fine by the authority in the amount of $1,000.00 per day for each day of failure to comply with subsection (b) of this Code section; and
  (3) When audited, not be subject to the three-year limit under paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of Code Section 38-3-189.
(d) Subsection (c) of this Code section shall apply only so long as the deficiency or noncompliance remains uncured.
(e) The authority may share the service supplier registry with the Department of Revenue to ensure proper collection and remittance of all 9-1-1 charges.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 436,§ 2-4, eff. 1/1/2019.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 696,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 57,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 211,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 46, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 134,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2005.
