# § 46-5-231. Definitions

(1) "Procure" means to obtain by any means, whether electronically or in writing or in oral form, with or without consideration.
(2) "Telephone" means any device used by a person for voice communications in connection with the services of a voice service provider, whether such voice communications are transmitted in analog, data, or any other form.
(3) "Telephone record" means information retained by a voice service provider that relates to a telephone number dialed by the customer or the incoming telephone numbers of calls directed to a customer or other data related to telephone calls typically contained on a customer telephone bill, such as the time the call started and ended, the duration of the call, the time of day the call was made, and any charges applied. For purposes of this article, any information collected and retained by, or on behalf of, customers utilizing caller identification or other similar technology does not constitute a telephone record.
(4) "Voice service provider" means any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association, or municipal, county, or local governmental entity that provides telephone services to a customer, irrespective of the communications technology used to provide such service, including, but not limited to, traditional wireline or cable telephone service; cellular, broadband personal communications service, or other wireless telephone service; microwave, satellite, or other terrestrial telephone service; and Voice over Internet Protocol service.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 211,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2007.
Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 700,§ 1, eff. 5/1/2006.
