# § 46-5-184. Contents of letter of agency

(a) A telecommunications company relying on a written authorization from a customer for a primary local exchange or long distance carrier change must obtain a letter of agency as specified in this Code section. Any letter of agency that does not conform with this Code section is invalid.
(b) The letter of agency shall be a separate document, or an easily separable document containing only the authorizing language described in subsection (e) of this Code section, having the sole purpose of authorizing a telecommunications company to initiate a primary local exchange or long distance carrier change. The letter of agency must be signed and dated by the subscriber to the telephone line or lines requesting the primary local exchange or long distance carrier change.
(c) The letter of agency shall not be combined with inducements of any kind on the same document.
(d) Notwithstanding subsections (b) and (c) of this Code section, the letter of agency may be combined with checks that contain only the required letter of agency language prescribed in subsection (e) of this Code section and the necessary information to make the check a negotiable instrument. The letter of agency check shall not contain any promotional language or material. The letter of agency check shall contain, on the front of the check in easily readable, boldface type at least as large and as dark as any other on the front of the check, a notice that the customer is authorizing a primary local exchange or long distance carrier change by signing the check. The letter of agency language also shall be placed near the signature line on the back of the check.
(e) At a minimum, the letter of agency must be printed in a type of a size and readability equal to at least 12 point New Roman font and must contain clear and unambiguous language that confirms:
  (1) The customer's billing name and address and each telephone number to be covered by the primary local exchange or long distance carrier change order;
  (2) The decision to change the customer's primary carrier of local exchange or long distance service from the current telecommunications company to the prospective telecommunications company; and the type of service, whether local exchange, intrastate inter-LATA long distance, or intrastate intra-LATA long distance, to be changed;
  (3) That the customer designates the telecommunications company to act as the customer's agent for the primary local exchange or long distance carrier change;
  (4) That the customer understands that the customer may select only one primary inter-LATA long distance carrier, one primary intra-LATA long distance carrier, and one primary local exchange carrier for any one telephone number. Furthermore, that the customer understands that the primary inter-LATA long distance carrier may be different from the primary intra-LATA long distance carrier or primary local exchange carrier and that the primary intra-LATA long distance carrier may be different from the primary local exchange carrier. The letter of agency must make clear to the customer whether the customer is selecting the carrier to provide inter-LATA long distance service, intra-LATA long distance service, or local exchange service, or any combination of these services. Any carrier designated in a letter of agency as a primary local exchange or long distance carrier must be the carrier directly setting rates for the customer. One telecommunications company can be a customer's primary inter-LATA long distance carrier, a customer's primary intra-LATA long distance carrier, and a customer's primary local exchange carrier; and
  (5) That the customer understands that any primary local exchange or long distance carrier selection the customer chooses may involve a charge to the customer for changing the customer's primary carrier and could involve a charge for changing back to the original primary carrier.
(f) Letters of agency shall not suggest or require that a customer take some action in order to retain the customer's current telecommunications company.
(g) If any portion of a letter of agency is translated into another language, then all portions of the letter of agency must be translated into that language. Every letter of agency must be translated into the same language as any promotional materials, oral descriptions, or instructions provided with the letter of agency.
