# § 46-5-163. Certificates of authority

(a) A telecommunications company including a telecommunications services reseller shall not provide telecommunications services without a certificate of authority issued by the commission. The provisions of Code Section 46-5-45 shall apply in circumstances where a telecommunications company is providing telecommunications services without a certificate issued by the commission.
(b) The commission shall have the authority to issue multiple certificates of authority for local exchange services upon a showing to the commission that an applicant possesses satisfactory financial and technical capability. Any certificate existing on July 1, 1995, shall remain effective and shall be considered a certificate of authority under this article. A certificate is not required for a telecommunications company to provide commercial mobile services. The commission shall also have the authority to issue certificates to long distance telecommunications carriers subject to federal court decisions, federal law, and regulations of the Federal Communications Commission.
(c) A showing of public convenience and necessity is not a condition for issuing a competing certificate of authority. Prior to July 1, 1998, only a currently certificated Tier 2 local exchange company may be issued a certificate of authority to compete for service in an area serviced by an existing Tier 2 local exchange company.
(d) Any certificate of authority issued by the commission is subject to revocation, suspension, or adjustment where the commission finds upon complaint and hearing that a local exchange company has engaged in unfair competition or has abused its market position.
(e) The commission shall grant certificates of authority in a timely manner and all such proceedings on complaints regarding abuse shall be resolved in a timely manner.
(f) All local exchange companies certificated by the commission shall be subject to the same rules and regulations applied by the commission to other local exchange companies certificated to provide local exchange services within the same area; provided, however, that in promulgating rules and regulations necessary to implement the provisions of this article, the commission may adopt rules and regulations for local exchange companies certificated after July 1, 1995, which vary from other rules and regulations applicable to the delivery of telecommunications services but which are appropriate and consistent to service being delivered by such local exchange companies and are adopted in the public interest.
