# § 46-5-62. Definitions

(.1) "Broadband affiliate" means any person which directly or indirectly controls, is controlled by, or is under common control of one or more cooperatives and which is used to provide broadband services.
(.2) "Broadband services" means a wired or wireless service that consists of the capability to transmit data to and from end users and in combination with such service provides:
  (A) Access to the internet; or
  (B) Computer processing, information storage, or protocol conversion. Such term shall include any facilities and equipment associated with such a service and any application or information content to be provided over such a service.
    (1) "Cooperative" means any corporation organized under this part or which becomes subject to this part.
    (2) "Person" means any natural person, firm, association, corporation, business trust, or partnership.
    (3) "Rural area" means any area within this state which is located outside:
      (A) The boundaries of an incorporated or unincorporated city, town, village, or borough having a population in excess of 15,000 inhabitants according to the last preceding federal census; and
      (B) Any suburban or populated area contiguous to the boundaries of any such city, town, village, or borough, which area has a common economic, social, or administrative interest with any such city, town, village, or borough.
    (4) "Telephone company" means any natural person, firm, association, corporation, partnership, cooperative nonprofit membership corporation, or limited dividend or mutual association owning, leasing, or operating any line, facility, or system used in the furnishing of telephone service within this state.
    (5) "Telephone service" means any communication service whereby voice communication through the use of electricity and wire connections between the transmitting and receiving apparatus is the principal intended use thereof. This term shall include all telephone lines, facilities, or systems used in the rendition of such service.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 52,§ 2, eff. 4/26/2019.
