# § 46-5-99. Extension of telephone service into state by foreign nonprofit or cooperative corporations; Secretary of State as agent for foreign corporations; rights and powers of foreign corporations

Any foreign nonprofit or cooperative corporation furnishing or authorized to furnish telephone service and owning or operating telephone lines or facilities in a state adjacent to this state may construct or acquire extensions of such lines in this state and operate such extensions without complying with any statute of this state pertaining to the qualification of foreign corporations for the doing of business in this state. Before constructing or operating such extensions, any such corporation shall designate the Secretary of State as its agent to accept service of process on its behalf, such designation to be effected by an instrument executed and acknowledged on its behalf by its president or vice president under its seal attested by its secretary and filed with the Secretary of State. Thereafter, with respect to its operation in this state, such corporation shall have only the rights, powers, privileges, and immunities of a cooperative organized under this part. In the event any process is served upon the Secretary of State, he shall forthwith forward the same by registered or certified mail or statutory overnight delivery to such corporation at the address thereof specified in the instrument executed pursuant to this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2004 Ga. Laws 564, § 46, eff. 5/13/2004.
