# § 46-5-124. Guidelines for implementing state-wide emergency 9-1-1 system; training and equipment standards

(a) The authority shall develop guidelines for implementing a state-wide emergency 9-1-1 system. The guidelines shall provide for:
  (1) Steps of action necessary for public agencies to effect the necessary coordination, regulation, and development preliminary to a 9-1-1 system that shall incorporate the requirements of each public service agency in each local government of Georgia;
  (2) Identification of mutual aid agreements necessary to effect the 9-1-1 system, including coordination on behalf of the State of Georgia with any federal agency to secure financial assistance or other desirable activities in connection with the receipt of funding that may be provided to communities for the planning, development, or implementation of the 9-1-1 system;
  (3) The coordination necessary between local governments planning or developing a 9-1-1 system and other state agencies, the Public Service Commission, all affected utility and telephone companies, wireless service suppliers, and other agencies;
  (4) The actions to establish emergency telephone service necessary to meet the requirements for each local government, including law enforcement, fire-fighting, medical, suicide prevention, rescue, or other emergency services; and
  (5) The actions to be taken by a local government desiring to provide wireless enhanced 9-1-1 service, including requirements contained in 47 C.F.R. Section 20.18.
(b) The authority shall be responsible for encouraging and promoting the planning, development, and implementation of local 9-1-1 system plans. The authority shall develop any necessary procedures to be followed by public agencies for implementing and coordinating such plans and shall mediate whenever disputes arise or agreements cannot be reached between the local political jurisdiction and other entities involving the 9-1-1 system.
(c) Notwithstanding any other law to the contrary, no communications officer hired to the staff of a public safety answering point shall be required to complete his or her training pursuant to Code Section 35-8-23 prior to being hired or employed for such position.
(d) The authority shall maintain the registry of wireless service suppliers provided for in Code Section 46-5-124.1.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 436,§ 2-3, eff. 1/1/2019.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 211,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 134,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2005.
