# § 46-5-24. Use of certain telephone numbers by ADAD equipment prohibited

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "ADAD equipment" means any device or system of devices which is used, whether alone or in conjunction with other equipment, for the purpose of automatically selecting or dialing telephone numbers and disseminating prerecorded messages to the numbers so selected or dialed.
  (2) "976 number" means any seven-digit telephone number the first three digits of which are 976 or any other combination of numbers and for which a per-call fee is charged for calling such telephone number.
(b)
  (1) It shall be unlawful for any person making use of a 976 number for the receipt of incoming calls to use, to employ or direct another person to use, or to contract for the use of ADAD equipment for the purpose of soliciting any person to call such 976 number.
  (2) It shall be unlawful for any person making use of a 976 number for the receipt of incoming calls to use, to employ or direct another person to use, or to contract for the use of the United States mail for the purpose of soliciting any person to call such 976 number.
(c) No telephone exchange company shall provide access to a 976 number or numbers to any person who solicits calls to such number or numbers through the use of ADAD equipment or through the use of the United States mail. The telephone exchange companies shall, upon the order of the commission, withdraw access to a 976 number or numbers from any person if calls to such number or numbers are solicited by ADAD equipment or are solicited through the use of the United States mail.
(d) The provisions of this Code section shall supersede any rule, regulation, or order governing the use of 976 numbers if such is in conflict with this Code section. Except for criminal sanctions, the commission is charged with the responsibility of enforcing this Code section. Any person who violates any provision of this Code section shall be subject to disconnection of 976 number telephone service if the commission determines that any violation has occurred and upon the commission's, thereafter, issuing an order directing such disconnection.
(e) Any person who violates any provision of subsection (b) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
