# § 46-5-214. Action in event of telephone record security breach; notification to Georgia residents; law enforcement exception; violations shall be unfair or deceptive practice in consumer transactions

(a) In the event of a breach of a telephone record concerning a Georgia resident, the telecommunications company must provide notice to the Georgia resident immediately following discovery or notification of the breach if such breach is reasonably likely to cause quantifiable harm to the Georgia resident. The notice must be made in the most expedient manner possible and without unreasonable delay, consistent with any measures necessary to determine the scope of the breach and restore the reasonable integrity, security, and confidentiality of the telephone record.
(b) Notwithstanding any provisions of this article to contrary, a telecommunications company that maintains its own notification procedures as part of an information security policy for the treatment of personal information and is otherwise consistent with the timing requirements of this Code section shall be deemed to be in compliance with the notification requirements of this Code section if it notifies the individuals who are the subject of the notice in accordance with its policies in the event of a breach of the security of the system.
(c) The notice required by this Code section shall be delayed if a law enforcement agency informs the business that notification may impede a criminal investigation or jeopardize national or homeland security, provided that such request is made in writing or the business documents such request contemporaneously in writing, including the name of the law enforcement officer making the request and the officer's law enforcement agency engaged in the investigation. The notice required by this Code section shall be provided without unreasonable delay after the law enforcement agency communicates to the business its determination that notice will no longer impede the investigation or jeopardize national or homeland security.
(d) A violation of this Code section constitutes an unfair or deceptive practice in consumer transactions within the meaning of Part 2 of Article 15 of Chapter 1 of Title 10, the "Fair Business Practices Act of 1975."

## History

Added by 2006 Ga. Laws 648,§ 5, eff. 4/28/2006.
