# § 46-5-85. Amendment of articles of incorporation

(a) A cooperative may amend its articles of incorporation by complying with the requirements of this Code section, provided that a change of location of principal office may be effected in the manner set forth in Code Section 46-5-86.
(b) The proposed amendment shall be presented to a meeting of the members, the notice of which shall set forth or have attached thereto the proposed amendment. If the proposed amendment, with any changes, is approved by the affirmative vote of not less than two-thirds of those members voting thereon at such meeting, articles of amendment shall be executed and acknowledged on behalf of the cooperative by its president or vice-president, and its seal shall be affixed thereto and attested by its secretary.
(c) The articles of amendment shall recite that they are executed pursuant to this part and shall state:
  (1) The name of the cooperative;
  (2) The address of its principal office; and
  (3) The amendment to its articles of incorporation.
(d) The president or vice-president executing such articles of amendment shall make and annex thereto an affidavit stating that the provisions of this Code section in regard to the amendment set forth in such articles were duly complied with.
(e) An application for approval of the articles of amendment, which application shall include such articles and the prescribed affidavits and which shall be signed and acknowledged by the president or vice-president of the cooperative, shall be presented to and approved by the superior court, or the judge thereof in vacation, filed with the clerk of the superior court of the county in which the principal office of the cooperative is located and with the Secretary of State, and published, in the same manner as an application for incorporation. The fees to be paid at the time of such filing shall be as prescribed in Code Section 46-5-100. Upon such filing, the amendment shall be deemed to be effective.
