# § 46-5-80. Meetings of members - Generally

(a) An annual meeting of the members of a cooperative shall be held at such time and place as shall be provided in the bylaws.
(b) Special meetings of the members may be called by the president, by the board of directors, by any three directors, or by not less than 200 members or 10 percent of all members, whichever is less.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this part, written or printed notice stating the time and place of each meeting of the members and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be given to each member, either personally or by mail, not less than ten days nor more than 25 days before the date of the meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be given when deposited in the United States mail with postage prepaid, addressed to the member at his address as it appears on the records of the cooperative.
(d) Unless the bylaws prescribe the presence of a greater percentage or number of the members for a quorum, a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of the members of a cooperative having not more than 500 members shall be 10 percent of all members present in person. A quorum for a cooperative having more than 500 members shall be 50 members or 2 percent of all members, whichever is greater, present in person. If less than a quorum is present at any meeting, a majority of those present in person may adjourn the meeting to another time without the giving of notice of such later meeting to absent members.
(e) Each member shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of the members. Voting shall be in person, but, if the bylaws so provide, may also be by mail.
