# § 2-21-2. Definitions

(1) "Certification" means the verification of authentic organic practices in the production or processing of organic food or feed and is an annual process by which the producer or processor of fresh, wholesale, or retail organic food or feed receives written certification from the department or a department approved certifying entity that, through the on-site inspection of the production, storage, processing, transportation, distribution, and required audit trail practices used by an organic producer or processor, consumers are assured that organic food or feed is produced and processed in compliance with Code Section 2-21-3. For purposes of complying with Code Section 2-21-3, certification does not require membership in nor imply a contractual agreement to produce or process organic food or feed for a certifying organic organization, business, firm, or individual. However, certification or the use of organic labeling shall require the maintenance of records and documentation verifying full compliance with the organic standards. All records shall be made available to the department or an approved certifying entity upon request.
(2) "Certifying entity" means any organization, business, firm, or individual that:
  (A) Has standards for certification of organic food or feed production or processing which meet or exceed standards set by the department and which are approved in writing by the Commissioner or his or her designee; and
  (B) Meets such education, experience, financial, and ethical standards as are set by rules promulgated by the Commissioner and meets the requirements of Chapter 5 of this title.
(3) "Commissioner" means the Commissioner of Agriculture of this state.
(4) "Department" means the Georgia Department of Agriculture.
(5) "Feed" means any article or substance normally intended to be consumed by animals for physical subsistence and health.
(6) "Food" means any article or substance normally intended to be consumed by humans for physical subsistence and health.
(7) "Organic" means an agriculture management system that enhances biodiversity, biological cycles, and soil biological activity to produce agricultural commodities and foster human and environmental health.
