# § 34-6A-2. Definitions

(1) "Disability" means any condition or characteristic that renders a person an individual with disabilities but shall not include addiction to any drug or illegal or federally controlled substance nor addiction to the use of alcohol.
(2) "Employer" means a person or governmental unit or officer in this state having in his, her, or its employ 15 or more individuals or any person acting as an agent of an employer.
(3) "Individual with disabilities" means any person who has a physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities and who has a record of such impairment. The term "individual with disabilities" shall not include any person who is addicted to the use of any drug or illegal or federally controlled substance nor addiction to the use of alcohol.
(4) "Labor organization" means an organization of any kind; agents of such organization; an agency or employee representation committee, group, association, or plan in which employees participate and which exists for the purpose, in whole or in part, of dealing with employers concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours, or other terms or conditions of employment; or a conference, general committee, joint or system board, or joint council so engaged which is subordinate to a national or international labor organization.
(5) "Major life activities" means functions such as caring for oneself, performing manual tasks, walking, seeing, hearing, speaking, breathing, learning, and working.
(6) "Persons" means one or more individuals, partnerships, this state, municipalities or other political subdivisions within the state, associations, labor organizations, or corporations.
(7) "Physical or mental impairment" means:
  (A) Any physiological disorder or condition or anatomical loss affecting one or more of the following body systems: neurological, musculoskeletal, special sense organs, respiratory (including speech organs), cardiovascular, reproductive, digestive, genitourinary, hemic and lymphatic, skin, or endocrine; or
  (B) Intellectual disabilities and specific learning disabilities.
(8) "Substantially limits" means that the impairment so affects a person as to create a likelihood that such person will experience difficulty in securing, retaining, or advancing in employment because of a disability.
(9) "Unfair employment practice" means an act that is prohibited under this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 70,§ 4-16, eff. 7/1/2015.
