# § 50-5-131. Definitions

(1) "Minority" means an individual who is a member of a race which comprises less than 50 percent of the total population of the state and is:
  (A) Black;
  (B) Hispanic;
  (C) Asian-Pacific American;
  (D) Native American; or
  (E) Asian-Indian American.
(2) "Minority business enterprise" means a business which is owned and controlled by one or more minorities; authorized to do and is doing business under the laws of this state; paying all taxes duly assessed; and domiciled within this state.
(3) "Owned and controlled" means a business:
  (A) Which is at least 51 percent owned by one or more minorities, women, or veterans or, in the case of a publicly owned business, at least 51 percent of all classes or types of the stock is owned by one or more minorities, women, or veterans; and
  (B) Whose management and daily business operations are controlled by one or more minorities, women, or veterans.
(4) "Veteran" means an individual who:
  (A) Served on active duty with the Army, Air Force, Navy, Marine Corps, Space Force, or Coast Guard for any length of time and did not receive a dishonorable discharge; or
  (B) Was a reservist or member of the National Guard who was called to federal active duty.
(5) "Veteran owned business" means a business which is owned and controlled by one or more veterans; authorized to do and is doing business under the laws of this state; paying all taxes duly assessed; and domiciled within this state.
(6) "Women owned business" means a business which is owned and controlled by one or more women; authorized to do and is doing business under the laws of this state; paying all taxes duly assessed; and domiciled within this state.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 21,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2024.
