# § 50-5-72. Construction and public works contracts conducted by department; advertising costs; exceptions

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this part or any other law dealing with the subject matter contained in this Code section to the contrary, all construction or public works contracts, exceeding a total expenditure of $100,000.00, of any department, board, bureau, commission, office, or agency of the state government, except as provided in this Code section, shall be conducted and negotiated by the Department of Administrative Services in accordance with this part; provided, however, that any expenditure of less than $100,000.00 shall still be subject to review and approval by the Department of Administrative Services, which may approve noncompetitive expenditures of up to $100,000.00.
(b) All advertising costs incurred in connection with such contracts shall be borne by and paid from the funds appropriated to and available to the department, board, bureau, commission, office, or agency of the state government for which the contract is negotiated.
(c)
  (1) Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section and to the extent permitted by law, the Department of Administrative Services shall not in its bid documents, specifications, project agreements, or other controlling documents for a public works construction contract:
    (A) Require or prohibit bidders, offerors, contractors, subcontractors, or material suppliers to enter into or adhere to prehire agreements, project labor agreements, collective bargaining agreements, or any other agreement with one or more labor organizations on the same or other related construction projects; or
    (B) Discriminate against, or treat differently, bidders, offerors, contractors, subcontractors, or material suppliers for becoming or refusing to become or remain signatories or otherwise to adhere to agreements with one or more labor organizations on the same or other related construction projects.
  (2) Nothing in this subsection shall prohibit bidders, offerors, contractors, subcontractors, or material suppliers from voluntarily entering into agreements described in paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (3) The head of a governmental entity may exempt a particular public works construction contract from the requirements of any or all of the provisions of paragraph (1) of this subsection if the governmental entity finds, after public notice and a hearing, that special circumstances require an exemption to avert an imminent threat to public health or safety. A finding of special circumstance under this paragraph shall not be based on the possibility or presence of a labor dispute concerning the use of contractors or subcontractors who are nonsignatories to, or otherwise do not adhere to, agreements with one or more labor organizations or concerning employees on the particular project who are not members of or affiliated with a labor organization.
(d) The commissioner of administrative services is authorized and directed to promulgate such rules and regulations as shall carry out the additional duties and responsibilities placed upon the department by this Code section.
(e) Nothing contained in this Code section shall apply to or affect the Department of Transportation, the several public authorities of this state, including the Stone Mountain Memorial Association and the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia, or the expenditure of money credited to the account of this state in the Unemployment Trust Fund by the secretary of the treasury of the United States pursuant to Section 903 of the Social Security Act and appropriated as provided in Code Section 34-8-85. No contract in existence on March 18, 1964, shall be affected by this Code section, and such contract may continue to be utilized.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 194,§ 9, eff. 5/6/2013.
