# § 50-5-16. Liability insurance and self-insurance for state authorities; funding

(a) The commissioner of administrative services may establish a program of liability insurance and self-insurance for state authorities.
(b) State funds may be appropriated for the program, but the commissioner shall charge such premiums, deductibles, and other payments as the commissioner determines necessary or useful. The commissioner is further authorized to establish incentive programs including differential premium rates based on participation in loss control programs established by the department, increased or decreased deductibles based on participation in loss control programs established by the department, and the imposition of fines and penalties. If any premiums, deductibles, fines, or penalties are unpaid, the department is authorized to deduct any unpaid amounts from the nonpaying agency's or authority's continuation budget subject to the approval of the Office of Planning and Budget and deposit those funds into the reserve fund provided for in this Code section. From the funds available to the commissioner, the commissioner shall establish such reserves as the commissioner determines necessary, purchase commercial policies, employ consultants, and otherwise administer the program. Any amounts held by the liability insurance or self-insurance funds which are available for investment shall be paid over to the Office of the State Treasurer. The state treasurer shall deposit such funds in trust accounts for credit only to the liability insurance and self-insurance funds. The state treasurer shall invest the liability insurance and self-insurance funds subject to the limitations of Code Section 50-5A-7 and Chapter 17 of this title. All income derived from such investments shall accrue to the liability insurance and self-insurance funds. When moneys are paid over to the Office of the State Treasurer, as provided in this Code section, the commissioner shall submit an estimate of the date such funds shall no longer be available for investment. When the commissioner wishes to withdraw funds from the trust account provided for in this Code section, he or she shall submit a request for such withdrawal, in writing, to the state treasurer.
(c) The commissioner may generally provide for insurance or self-insurance under such terms and conditions as he determines, and he may provide for particular coverages and other terms and conditions of the unique exposures particular to one or more authorities. The commissioner may provide for endorsements for contract liability and, where necessary or convenient to the public functions of an authority, he may also provide for additional insureds.
(d) Where existing programs of insurance and self-insurance have been established among state authorities by contract, the commissioner may arrange with such authorities to replace the existing programs with such programs as he may establish. In doing so he may assume existing and potential liabilities of the established programs. To the extent that funds of the existing programs are not necessary for such purposes, the commissioner may agree to the refund of such funds.
(e) Nothing in this Code section or in any related act of the commissioner or the participating authorities shall be construed as waiving any immunity or privilege of any kind now or hereafter enjoyed by the state or the state authorities, including without limitation defenses under the Eleventh Amendment of the Constitution of the United States, sovereign immunity, or any other legal or factual defense, privilege, or immunity which the state or a participating authority may enjoy or assert. The intent of this authorization is to provide for protection only in the absence of such defenses.
(f) Similarly, nothing in this Code section or in any related act of the commissioner or participating authorities shall pledge or be deemed to pledge the credit of the state. No obligation shall arise beyond the limits of liability established by the commissioner or beyond such other terms and conditions as he may establish, and no obligation shall be imposed or created upon other funds of the state or upon other funds of the participating authorities.
(g) Nothing in the program of insurance or self-insurance shall cause one authority to be liable for claims of another or otherwise expose the assets of one authority to claims of liability respecting another authority.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 450,§ 7, eff. 5/6/2008.
