# § 50-5-141. Transfer, sale, trade, or destruction authorized; certain employee purchases prohibited

(a) The Department of Administrative Services is authorized and it shall be its duty to dispose of surplus property by one of the following means:
  (1) Transfer to other state agencies;
  (2) Sell to the highest responsible bidder for cash;
  (3) Sell by fixed price; provided, however, that surplus property sold by fixed price shall have been originally purchased by the state for an amount of $5,000.00 or less;
  (4) Trade in such surplus property on the purchase of new equipment if the Department of Administrative Services shall determine that such action is for the best interest of the state; or
  (5) Where the Department of Administrative Services shall determine that the surplus property has no value or that the cost of maintaining and selling the surplus property exceeds the anticipated proceeds from the sale of the surplus property, by destruction and disposal and order of removal from the inventory of the department, institution, or agency with such action noted thereon.
(b) No employee of the Department of Administrative Services or such employee's immediate family member shall purchase surplus property sold by fixed price or negotiated sale; nor shall any person purchase surplus property by fixed price or negotiated sale for the direct or indirect benefit of any such employee or employee's immediate family member.

## History

Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 18,§ 50, eff. 5/11/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 552,§ 1, eff. 4/21/2006.
