# § 50-5-133. Fraud in certification process; penalty; effect of multiple violations

(a) It shall be unlawful for a person to:
  (1) Knowingly and with intent to defraud, fraudulently obtain, retain, attempt to obtain or retain, or aid another in fraudulently obtaining or retaining or attempting to obtain or retain certification as a minority business enterprise, women owned business, or veteran owned business for the purposes of this part;
  (2) Knowingly and willfully make a false statement with the intent to defraud, whether by affidavit, report, or other representation, to a state official or employee for the purpose of influencing the certification or denial of any certification of any entity as a minority business enterprise, women owned business, or veteran owned business;
  (3) Knowingly and willfully obstruct, impede, or attempt to obstruct or impede any state official or employee who is investigating the qualifications of a business entity which has requested certification as a minority business enterprise, women owned business, or veteran owned business;
  (4) Knowingly and willfully with intent to defraud, fraudulently obtain, attempt to obtain, or aid another person in fraudulently obtaining or attempting to obtain public moneys to which the person is not entitled under this part; or
  (5) Knowingly and willfully assign any contract awarded pursuant to the Department of Administrative Services to any other business enterprise without prior written approval of the Department of Administrative Services.
(b) Any person convicted of violating any provision of this Code section shall be guilty of a felony, punishable by imprisonment for not more than five years or a fine of not more than $10,000.00 or both such imprisonment and fine.
(c) If a contractor, subcontractor, supplier, subsidiary, principal, or affiliate thereof has been found to have violated this Code section and that violation occurred within three years of another violation of this Code section, the Department of Administrative Services shall prohibit that contractor, subcontractor, supplier, subsidiary, or affiliate thereof from entering into a state project or state contract; from further bidding to a state entity; from being a subcontractor to a contractor for a state entity; and from being a supplier to a state entity.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 21,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2024.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 50, eff. 2/24/2013.
