# § 50-5-132. Eligibility and procedures for certification; appeal of denial

(a) Any minority business enterprise, women owned business, or veteran owned business that desires to claim such status under any law of this state or any regulation promulgated pursuant thereto shall first apply for certification to the Department of Administrative Services.
(b) The Department of Administrative Services shall certify a business which meets the eligibility requirement of this part and any other such eligibility requirements as determined by the Department of Administrative Services to qualify as a minority business enterprise, women owned business, or veteran owned business. To qualify as a minority business enterprise, women owned business, or veteran owned business, the business shall:
  (1) Be a minority business enterprise, women owned business, or veteran owned business;
  (2) Submit any documentary evidence to support its status as a minority business enterprise, women owned business, or veteran owned business; and
  (3) Be qualified to bid pursuant to the provisions of the Department of Administrative Services and other state agencies.
(c) The Department of Administrative Services shall prepare and maintain a list of certified minority business enterprises, women owned businesses, and veteran owned businesses.
(d) The Department of Administrative Services may deny certification to any minority business enterprise, women owned business, or veteran owned business which does not qualify as such under the provisions of this part. Any person adversely affected by an order of the Department of Administrative Services denying certification as a minority business enterprise, women owned business, or veteran owned business may appeal as provided in the regulations of the Department of Administrative Services.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 21,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2024.
