# § 50-5-63. Green building standards; exclusive use of Georgia forest products in state construction contracts; exceptions

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Green building standards" means any system or tool created to rate the environmental efficiency and sustainability of the design, construction, operation, and maintenance of a building.
  (2) "State building" means any facility owned, constructed, or acquired by the State of Georgia or any department, board, commission, or agency thereof, including state supported institutions of higher learning.
(b) No contract for the construction of, addition to, or repair or renovation of any facility, the cost of which is borne by this state or any department, agency, commission, authority, or political subdivision thereof, shall be let unless the contract contains a stipulation therein providing that the contractor or any subcontractor shall use exclusively Georgia forest products in the construction thereof, when forest products are to be used in such construction, addition, repair, or renovation, and if Georgia forest products are available.
(c) Whenever green building standards are applied to the new construction, operation, repair, or renovation of any state building, the entity applying the standards shall use only those green building standards that give certification credits equally to Georgia forest products grown, manufactured, and certified under the Sustainable Forestry Initiative, the American Tree Farm System, the Forest Stewardship Council, or other similar certifying organization approved by such entity.
(d) This Code section shall not apply when in conflict with federal rules and regulations concerning construction.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 47,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
