# § 50-5-85. Prohibition on contracting with companies without certification against boycott of Israel

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Boycott of Israel" means engaging in refusals to deal with, terminating business activities with, or other actions that are intended to limit commercial relations with Israel or companies doing business in Israel, with Israel, organized under the laws of the State of Israel, or licensed by Israel to do business in Israel, when such actions are taken:
    (A) In compliance or adherence to calls for a boycott of Israel other than those boycotts to which 50 U.S.C. App. Section 2407(c), as it existed on January 1, 2016, applies; or
    (B) In a manner that discriminates on the basis of nationality, national origin, religion, or other unreasonable basis that is not founded on a valid business reason.
  (2) "Company" means any organization, association, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability company, or other entity or business association which employs more than five persons but excludes individuals and sole proprietorships, including all wholly owned subsidiaries, majority owned subsidiaries, parent companies, or affiliates of such entities or business associations, that exists for the purpose of making profit.
(b) The state shall not enter into a contract valued at $100,000.00 or more with a company if the contract is related to construction or the provision of services, supplies, or information technology unless the contract includes a written certification that such company is not currently engaged in, and agrees for the duration of the contract not to engage in, a boycott of Israel.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 515,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 275,§ 50, eff. 5/9/2017.
Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 378,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2016.
