# § 50-5-60.2. Use of recycled content paper products

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Mill broke" means any paper waste generated in a paper mill prior to the completion of the paper-making process up to and including the cutting and trimming of the paper machine reel into small rolls or rough sheets.
  (2) "Printing and writing paper" means high-grade office paper including but not limited to copier paper, bond paper, forms, stationery, envelopes, text and cover stock, as well as offset printing paper.
  (3) "Recycled content paper" means any paper having recycled fiber content.
  (4) "Recycled fiber content" means those materials and by-products that have been recovered or diverted from the solid waste stream. Such term does not include sawdust, wood chips, wood slabs, or the virgin content of mill broke.
(b) At least 95 percent of moneys spent on printing and writing paper purchased by state agencies, commissions, and authorities shall be spent upon recycled content paper which meets or exceeds Environmental Protection Agency guidelines for minimum recycled content; provided, however, the provisions of this subsection shall not apply if the price of recycled content paper required by this Code section exceeds 8 percent of the price paid by the Department of Administrative Services for 100 percent virgin paper products or if the recycled content paper required by this Code section does not meet the standards, quality level, and specifications established by the Department of Administrative Services.
(c) It shall be the responsibility of each agency, commission, and authority to monitor, document, and report its use of recycled content paper. Any state agency, institution, commission, and authority that documents and reports attainment of the 95 percent requirement set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section for two consecutive fiscal years shall still be required to monitor and document its use of recycled content paper but shall no longer be required to submit a report upon written confirmation from the Department of Administrative Services that the 95 percent requirement set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section has been satisfied for two consecutive fiscal years by that particular agency, commission, institution, or authority; provided, however, that the Department of Administrative Services shall conduct periodic audits, and any state agency, institution, commission, and authority exempted from the reporting requirement pursuant to this subsection that is not satisfying the 95 percent requirement set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section may be directed by the Department of Administrative Services to resume reporting until reattainment of the 95 percent requirement set forth in subsection (b) of this Code section is confirmed for two additional consecutive fiscal years.
(d) The Department of Administrative Services shall maintain and continue to develop and implement reporting procedures and educational programs to assist agencies, commissions, institutions, and authorities in meeting the requirements of this Code section to maximize both purchasing power and the use of recycled products by each such agency, commission, institution, and authority.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 50, eff. 4/14/2006.
