# § 50-5-80. Unlawful to use state purchasing resources for personal benefit; exception

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "person" includes natural persons, firms, partnerships, corporations, or associations.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person to obtain for his or her own personal benefit, or for the benefit of any other person, any goods, services or other things of value, through any resource or method established pursuant to this article, including, but not limited to, purchase orders, government contracts, credit cards, charge cards, or debit cards.
(c)
  (1) Any person who violates subsection (b) of this Code section by obtaining any goods, services, or other things of value in the aggregate value of less than $500.00 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature which shall be punishable by not more than 12 months' imprisonment and a fine not to exceed $5,000.00. In addition to the foregoing criminal penalties, any such person shall also be subject to immediate termination of state employment and shall owe restitution to the state equal to the amount of such unlawful purchases, plus interest to be assessed at a rate of 12 percent per annum to be calculated from the date each unlawful purchase was made.
  (2) Any person who violates subsection (b) of this Code section by obtaining any goods, services, or other things of value in the aggregate value of $500.00 or more shall be guilty of a felony which shall be punishable by not less than one nor more than 20 years' imprisonment and a fine not to exceed $50,000.00 or triple the amount of such unlawful purchases, whichever is greater. In addition to the foregoing criminal penalties, any such person shall also be subject to immediate termination of state employment and shall owe restitution equal to the amount of such unlawful purchases, plus interest to be assessed at a rate of 12 percent per annum to be calculated from the date each such unlawful purchase was made.
(d)
  (1) Any person who knowingly assists another person in violating subsection (b) of this Code section shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature which shall be punishable by not more than 12 months' imprisonment and a fine not to exceed $5,000.00 if the unlawfully purchased goods, services, or other things of value are valued in the aggregate of less than $500.00. In addition to such criminal penalties, any such person shall also be subject to immediate termination of state employment and shall owe restitution equal to the amount of such unlawful purchases, plus interest to be assessed at a rate of 12 percent per annum to be calculated from the date each unlawful purchase was made.
  (2) Any person who knowingly assists another person in violating subsection (b) of this Code section shall be guilty of a felony which shall be punishable by not less than one nor more than 20 years' imprisonment and a fine not to exceed $50,000.00 or triple the amount of the unlawful purchases, whichever is greater, if the goods, services, or other things of value are in the aggregate value of $500.00 or more. In addition to such criminal penalties, any such person shall also be subject to immediate termination of state employment and shall owe restitution for the amount of such unlawful purchases, plus interest to be assessed at a rate of 12 percent per annum to be calculated from the date each unlawful purchase was made.
(e) This Code section shall not apply to any official employee purchase program for technology resources facilitated by and through the Georgia Technology Authority for state employees and public school employees of county or independent boards of education.

## History

Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 700,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2008.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 50, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 22,§ 15, eff. 7/1/2005.
