# § 50-5-60. Preference of products produced in Georgia; vendor preference

(a) The state and any department, agency, or commission thereof, when contracting for or purchasing supplies, materials, equipment, or agricultural products, excluding beverages for immediate consumption, shall give preference as far as may be reasonable and practicable to such supplies, materials, equipment, and agricultural products as may be manufactured or produced in this state. Such preference shall not sacrifice quality.
(b) Vendors resident in the State of Georgia are to be granted the same preference over vendors resident in another state in the same manner, on the same basis, and to the same extent that preference is granted in awarding bids for the same goods or services by such other state, or by any local government of such state, to vendors resident therein over vendors resident in the State of Georgia.
(c) In determining whether such a preference is reasonable in any case where the value of a contract for or purchase of such supplies, materials, equipment, or agricultural products exceeds $100,000.00, the state or its department, agency, or commission shall consider, among other factors, information submitted by the bidder which may include the bidder's estimate of the multiplier effect on gross state domestic product and the effect on public revenues of the state and the effect on public revenues of political subdivisions resulting from acceptance of a bid or offer to sell Georgia manufactured or produced goods as opposed to out-of-state manufactured or produced goods. Any such estimates shall be in writing. The state or its department, agency, or commission shall not divide a contract or purchase which exceeds $100,000.00 for the purpose of avoiding the requirements of this subsection.
(d) Nothing in this Code section shall negate the requirements of Code Section 50-5-73.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 743,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 58,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2009.
