# § 50-5-135. Creation; membership; terms; appointments; compensation; existence

(a) There is created the State Use Council, hereafter referred to as the council. The council shall be composed of 16 members as follows:
  (1) The commissioner of administrative services or his or her designee;
  (2) The commissioner of human services or his or her designee;
  (2.1) The commissioner of behavioral health and developmental disabilities or his or her designee;
  (3) The commissioner of community affairs or his or her designee;
  (4) The commissioner of corrections or his or her designee;
  (5) Five members appointed by the Governor who shall represent the business community of the state;
  (6) Three members appointed by the Governor who shall represent a broad spectrum of persons with disabilities; and
  (7) Three members appointed by the Governor who shall represent the interest of organizations representative of persons with disabilities.
(b) Initially, the 11 members appointed pursuant to paragraphs (5) through (7) in subsection (a) of this Code section shall serve staggered terms of office as follows: four members for two years, four members for three years, and three members for four years. Thereafter, each member shall serve for a term of four years. Such members shall serve until the appointment and qualification of their successors. The members appointed by the Governor shall be selected from the state at large but shall be representative of all of the geographic areas of the state.
(c) All successors shall be appointed in the same manner as original appointments. Vacancies in office shall be filled in the same manner as original appointments. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be for the unexpired term. The council shall elect its own officers. No vacancy on the council shall impair the right of the quorum to exercise all rights and perform all duties of the council.
(d) The members of the council shall receive no compensation for their services but shall be entitled to and shall be reimbursed for their actual expenses, including travel and any other expenses incurred in the performance of their duties. Reimbursement for travel by a personal motor vehicle shall be made in the same manner and subject to the same limitations as provided for state employees under Code Section 50-19-7.
(e) The council shall have perpetual existence. Any change in name or composition of the council shall in no way affect the vested rights of any person under this part or impair the obligations of any contracts existing under this part.

## History

Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 50, eff. 2/24/2013.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 418,§ 22, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 2-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
