# § 33-33-8. Temporary insurance coverage for local public entity filing appeal of adverse underwriting decision

(a) For the purposes of this Code section, the term "local public entity" means a county, municipality, or local board of education.
(b) In the event the insurance coverage of a local public entity filing an appeal of an adverse underwriting decision of the association established pursuant to this chapter is scheduled to cancel or expire while such appeal is pending, the Commissioner shall direct the association to provide coverage authorized under this chapter on a temporary basis to the local public entity as provided in this Code section.
(c) It shall be the duty of the local public entity to notify the Commissioner in writing at the same time the appeal is filed of the date its existing insurance coverage is to cancel or expire. Failure of the local public entity to notify the Commissioner as provided in this subsection shall render the local public entity ineligible for the temporary coverage authorized by this Code section. Upon receiving such notice, the Commissioner shall direct the association to provide coverage authorized under this chapter to the local public entity, shall specify the date such coverage is to be effective, and shall specify the date of termination of such coverage, which shall not be set prior to the date of the Commissioner's final order disposing of the issues on appeal. The premium for the temporary coverage provided by this Code section shall be paid in full by the local public entity at the time the coverage is issued by such method and in such manner as directed by the Commissioner.
(d) Upon receipt of the notice from the public entity specified in subsection (c) of this Code section, the Commissioner shall notify such entity of the emergency property protection measures, if any, which will be required during the period of temporary coverage. Such measures may include the following:
  (1) Protection of physically damaged property from further damage;
  (2) Prevention or limitation of access to the premises;
  (3) Disconnection of utilities;
  (4) Installation of locks, alarms, or security lighting;
  (5) Inspections of the premises; or
  (6) Provision of security guards.
(e) After ordering the temporary coverage required under subsection (b) of this Code section, the Commissioner shall cause notice of such action and any emergency protection measures pertaining to such coverage to be published in the legal organ of the county in which the property is located.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 140,§ 110, eff. 7/1/2019.
