# § 44-10-28. Review of applications; procedure; approval, modification, or rejection; negotiations for acquisitions; variances; appeals

(a) Prior to reviewing an application for a certificate of appropriateness, the commission shall take such action as may reasonably be required to inform the owners of any property likely to be affected materially by the application and shall give the applicant and such owners an opportunity to be heard. In cases where the commission deems it necessary, it may hold a public hearing concerning the application.
(b) The commission shall approve the application and issue a certificate of appropriateness if it finds that the proposed material change in appearance would not have a substantial adverse effect on the esthetic, historical, or architectural significance and value of the historic property or the historic district. In making this determination, the commission shall consider, in addition to any other pertinent factors, the historical and architectural value and significance; architectural style; general design, arrangement, texture, and material of the architectural features involved; and the relationship thereof to the exterior architectural style and pertinent features of other structures in the immediate neighborhood.
(c) In its review of applications for certificates of appropriateness, the commission shall not consider interior arrangement or uses having no effect on exterior architectural features.
(d) The commission shall approve or reject an application for a certificate of appropriateness within 45 days after the filing thereof by the owner or occupant of a historic property or of a structure, site, or work of art located within a historic district. Evidence of approval shall be by a certificate of appropriateness issued by the commission. Failure of the commission to act within the 45 day period shall constitute approval, and no other evidence of approval shall be needed.
(e) In the event the commission rejects an application, it shall state its reasons for doing so and shall transmit a record of such action and the reasons therefor, in writing, to the applicant. The commission may suggest alternative courses of action it thinks proper if it disapproves of the application submitted. The applicant, if he so desires, may make modifications to the plans and may resubmit the application at any time after doing so.
(f) In cases where the application covers a material change in the appearance of a structure which would require the issuance of a building permit, the rejection of an application for a certificate of appropriateness by the commission shall be binding upon the building inspector or other administrative officer charged with issuing building permits; and, in such a case, no building permit shall be issued.
(g) Where such action is authorized by the local governing body and is reasonably necessary or appropriate for the preservation of a unique historic property, the commission may enter into negotiations with the owner for the acquisition by gift, purchase, exchange, or otherwise of the property or any interest therein.
(h) Where, by reason of unusual circumstances, the strict application of any provision of this article would result in exceptional practical difficulty or undue hardship upon any owner of any specific property, the commission, in passing upon applications, shall have the power to vary or modify strict adherence to the provisions or to interpret the meaning of the provision so as to relieve such difficulty or hardship; provided, however, that such variance, modification, or interpretation shall remain in harmony with the general purpose and intent of the provisions so that the architectural or historical integrity or character of the property shall be conserved and substantial justice done. In granting variations, the commission may impose such reasonable and additional stipulations and conditions as will in its judgment best fulfill the purpose of this article.
(i) The commission shall keep a record of all applications for certificates of appropriateness and of all its proceedings.
(j) Any person adversely affected by any determination made by the commission relative to the issuance or denial of a certificate of appropriateness may appeal such determination to the governing body of the county or municipality in whose historic preservation jurisdiction the property in question is located; and such governing body may approve, modify and approve, or reject the determination made by the commission if the governing body finds that the commission abused its discretion in reaching its decision. The ordinances adopted in conformity with Code Section 44-10-26 shall specify the procedures for the review of decisions of the commission by the governing body of the county or municipality involved. Appeals from decisions of the governing body made pursuant to this article may be taken to the superior court in the manner provided by law for appeals from a conviction for municipal or county ordinance violations.
