# § 44-10-3. Creation or alteration of conservation easements; acceptance; duration; effect on existing rights and duties; limitation of liability; encumbered property must be located within boundaries of locality holding easement

(a) Except as otherwise provided in this article, a conservation easement may be created, conveyed, recorded, assigned, released, modified, terminated, or otherwise altered or affected in the same manner as other easements, except that a conservation easement may not be created or expanded by the exercise of the power of eminent domain.
(b) No right or duty in favor of or against a holder and no right in favor of a person having a third-party right of enforcement arises under a conservation easement before its acceptance by the holder and a recordation of the acceptance.
(c) Except as provided in subsection (c) of Code Section 44-10-4, a conservation easement is unlimited in duration unless the instrument creating it otherwise provides.
(d) An interest in real property in existence at the time a conservation easement is created is not impaired by it unless the owner of the interest is a party to the conservation easement or consents to it.
(e) The ownership or attempted enforcement of rights held by the holder of an easement shall not subject such holder to any liability for any damage or injury that may be suffered by any person on the property or as a result of the condition of such property encumbered by a conservation easement.
(f) No county, municipality, or consolidated government shall hold a conservation easement unless the encumbered real property lies at least partly within the jurisdictional boundaries of such county, municipality, or consolidated government.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 607,§; III-3-2, eff. 1/1/2013.
