# § 44-10-46. Farmland Advisory Council created; membership; terms; compensation; meetings; quorum

(a) There is created the Georgia Farmland Advisory Council to advise and assist the department with administration and implementation of the program utilizing the criteria proposed by the department and adopted by the council. The council shall consist of 14 members as follows:
  (1) The Commissioner, or his or her designee, who shall also serve as chairperson of the council;
  (2) Two members appointed by the Governor as follows:
    (A) One member who operates a family farm in this state; and
    (B) One member who is the designated representative of a banking or lending organization and with significant experience in agricultural lending;
  (3) One member who operates a family farm in this state, appointed by the Lieutenant Governor;
  (4) Four members appointed by the Commissioner as follows:
    (A) One member who operates a family farm in this state;
    (B) One member who is the designated representative of a statewide agricultural organization;
    (C) One member who is a designated representative of a statewide nonprofit agricultural or conservation organization operating in this state; and
    (D) One member from the state at-large;
  (5) One member who operates a family farm in this state, appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;
  (6) The president of the Georgia Agribusiness Council;
  (7) The deans of the Colleges of Agriculture at the University of Georgia, Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College, or Fort Valley State University, who shall each serve rotating, nonconcurrent three-year terms, or his or her designee;
  (8) The executive director of the State Soil and Water Conservation Commission;
  (9) The president of the Georgia Farm Bureau or his or her designee; and
  (10) The Georgia state conservationist of the Natural Resources Conservation Service, who shall serve as a nonvoting member.
(b) Initially appointed members shall serve staggered terms of office as follows: two members as appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the Commissioner for one year, three members as appointed by the Commissioner for two years, and three members as appointed by the Governor and Lieutenant Governor for three years.
(c) The members shall serve without compensation; provided, however, that the members shall receive the same per diem allowance and reimbursement of expenses as allowed for members of the General Assembly.
(d) The council shall meet at least quarterly each year for the transaction of its business.
(e) Three-fifths of the members of the council present at any board meeting shall constitute a quorum necessary for the transaction of business; provided, however, that in absence of a quorum, a majority of the members present may adjourn the meeting from time to time until a quorum shall attend. Unless otherwise specified in this Code section, any council action or recommendation shall be approved by a simple majority of the members of the entire council then in office.

## History

Added by 2023 Ga. Laws 13,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023.
