# § 31-12-7. Rules and regulations regarding tests for sickle cell anemia, sickle cell trait, and other metabolic and genetic disorders; counseling; fees

(a) In coordination and association with the system established by the department for the screening, retrieval, and diagnosis of certain metabolic and genetic disorders pursuant to Code Section 31-12-6, the department, or its successor agency or department, shall adopt and promulgate appropriate rules and regulations governing tests for sickle cell anemia, sickle cell trait, and other metabolic and genetic disorders as enumerated by the department pursuant to rules and regulations so that as nearly as possible all newborn infants who are susceptible or likely to have sickle cell anemia, sickle cell trait, or other metabolic and genetic disorders shall receive a test for sickle cell anemia, sickle cell trait, or other metabolic and genetic disorders or all of such conditions as soon after birth as successful testing and treatment therefor may be initiated; provided, however, that this Code section shall not apply to any infant whose parents object thereto on the grounds that such tests and treatment conflict with their religious tenets and practices.
(b) If any such child is found to have sickle cell anemia or sickle cell trait, it shall be the duty of the examining physician or the department to inform the parents of such child that the child is so afflicted and, if such child has sickle cell anemia or sickle cell trait, that counseling regarding the nature of the disease, its effects, and its treatment is available without cost from the department and the county board of health or county department of health.
(c) It shall be the duty of the department and each county board of health and county department of health, or their successor agencies or departments, to furnish counseling and advice to any persons requesting such counseling regarding sickle cell anemia or sickle cell trait, its characteristics, symptoms, traits, effects, and treatment. Such counseling shall be furnished without cost to the person requesting it.
(d) The department shall be authorized to establish and periodically adjust, by rule and regulation, fees associated with the screening, retrieval, and diagnosis conducted pursuant to this Code section to help defray or meet the costs incurred by the department; provided, however, that in no event shall the total fees associated with such screening, retrieval, and diagnosis exceed $40.00 for the calendar year beginning January 1, 2007. In no event shall the fees exceed such costs, both direct and indirect, in providing such screenings and related services, provided that no services shall be denied on the basis of inability to pay. All fees paid thereunder shall be paid into the general fund of the State of Georgia.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 573,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2007.
