# § 31-12-2.1. Investigation of potential bioterrorism activity; regulations and planning for public health emergencies

(a) The department shall ascertain the existence of any illness or health condition that may be caused by bioterrorism, epidemic or pandemic disease, or novel and highly fatal infectious agents or toxins and that may pose a substantial risk of a public health emergency; investigate all such cases to determine sources of infection and to provide for proper control measures; and define the distribution of the illness or health condition. The department shall:
  (1) Identify, interview, and counsel, as appropriate, all individuals reasonably believed to have been exposed to risk;
  (2) Develop information relating to the source and spread of the risk; and
  (3) Close, evacuate, or decontaminate, as appropriate, any facility and decontaminate or destroy any contaminated materials when the department reasonably suspects that such material or facility may endanger the public health.
(b) The department shall promulgate rules and regulations appropriate for management of any public health emergency declared pursuant to the provisions of Code Section 38-3-51, with particular regard to coordination of the public health emergency response of the state pursuant to subsection (i) of said Code section. Such rules and regulations shall be applicable to the activities of all entities created pursuant to Chapter 3 of this title in such circumstances, notwithstanding any other provisions of law. In developing such rules and regulations, the department shall consult and coordinate as appropriate with the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Georgia Department of Public Safety, the Georgia Department of Agriculture, and the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. The department is authorized, in the course of management of a declared public health emergency, to adopt and implement emergency rules and regulations pursuant to the provisions of subsection (b) of Code Section 50-13-4. Such rules and regulations shall be adopted pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," but shall be automatically referred by the Office of Legislative Counsel to the House of Representatives and Senate Committees on Judiciary.
(c) The department shall promulgate, prepare, and maintain a public health emergency plan and draft executive order for the declaration of a public health emergency pursuant to Code Section 38-3-51 and Chapter 13 of Title 50. In preparation of such public health emergency plan and draft executive order, the department shall consult and coordinate as appropriate with the Georgia Emergency Management and Homeland Security Agency, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, the Georgia Department of Public Safety, the Georgia Department of Agriculture, and the federal Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

## History

Amended by 2016 Ga. Laws 335,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2016.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 973, § 7, eff. 5/16/2002.
