# § 31-12-3.2. Meningococcal disease; vaccinations; disclosures

(a) Every public and nonpublic postsecondary educational institution shall provide to each newly admitted freshman or matriculated student residing in campus housing as defined by the postsecondary educational institution or to the student's parent or guardian if the student is a minor, the following information:
  (1) Meningococcal disease is a serious disease that can lead to death within only a few hours of onset; one in ten cases is fatal; and one in seven survivors of the disease is left with a severe disability, such as the loss of a limb, developmental disability, paralysis, deafness, or seizures;
  (2) Meningococcal disease is contagious but a largely preventable infection of the spinal cord fluid and the fluid that surrounds the brain;
  (3) Scientific evidence suggests that college students living in dormitory facilities are at a moderately increased risk of contracting meningococcal disease; and
  (4) Immunization against meningococcal disease will decrease the risk of the disease.
(b) In accordance with the recommendations of the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, newly admitted students who are 18 years of age or older residing in campus housing as defined by the postsecondary educational institution or residing in sorority or fraternity houses shall be required to sign a document provided by the postsecondary educational institution stating that he or she has received vaccination against meningococcal disease not more than five years prior to such admittance or reviewed the information provided as required by subsection (a) of this Code section. If a student is a minor, only a parent or guardian may sign such document.
(c) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to require any postsecondary educational institution to provide or pay for vaccinations of students against meningococcal disease.
(d) Any postsecondary educational institution that has made a reasonable effort to comply with this Code section shall not be liable for damages or injuries sustained by a student by reason of such student's contracting meningococcal disease.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 54,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 3-6, eff. 7/1/2009.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 48, § 1, eff. 1/1/2004.
