# § 31-12-3. Power to require immunization and other preventive measures

(a) The department and all county boards of health are empowered to require, by appropriate rules and regulations, persons located within their respective jurisdictions to submit to vaccination against contagious or infectious disease where the particular disease may occur, whether or not the disease may be an active threat. The department may, in addition, require such other measures to prevent the conveyance of infectious matter from infected persons to other persons as may be necessary and appropriate. The department shall promulgate appropriate rules and regulations for the implementation of the provisions of this Code section in the case of a declaration of a public health emergency and shall include provisions permitting consideration of the opinion of a person's personal physician as to whether the vaccination is medically appropriate or advisable for such person. Such rules and regulations shall be adopted pursuant to Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," but shall be automatically referred by the Office of Legislative Counsel to the House of Representatives and Senate Committees on Judiciary.
(b) In the absence of an epidemic or immediate threat thereof, this Code section shall not apply to any person who objects in writing thereto on grounds that such immunization conflicts with his religious beliefs.

## History

Amended by 2002 Ga. Laws 973, § 8, eff. 5/16/2002.
