# § 31-12-11. Abating operation of bathhouses

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Bathhouse" means a place of public accommodation having facilities including all or some of the following: baths, whirlpools, saunas, massage areas or rooms, and semiprivate or private areas or rooms; and where entry to such place of public accommodation is contingent upon the payment of money on an hourly, daily, weekly, monthly, annual, or club basis; and where the owners or managers or employees of such place of public accommodation knowingly grant or permit the use of such place for illegal sexual activity.
  (2) "Illegal sexual activity" means any illegal sexual act involving the sex organs of a person and the mouth, anus, or sex organs of another person.
(b) The operation of bathhouses in this state is declared to be harmful to the public health, safety, and welfare of the citizens of this state.
(c) The department and the county boards of health are empowered to maintain actions for injunction pursuant to Code Section 31-5-9 to abate the operation of any bathhouse in this state as a public nuisance.
(d) The commissioner or the commissioner's designee or the director of any county board of health is authorized to obtain, pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 5 of this title, inspection warrants for the search or inspection of any property which is a bathhouse.
(e) Any person, firm, corporation, or other business entity which owns, operates, or is a manager for or employee of a bathhouse shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed so as to repeal Code Section 16-6-10, relating to keeping a place of prostitution.
