# § 33-9-21. Maintenance and filing rates, rating plans, rating systems, or underwriting rules; examination of claim reserve practices by Commissioner

(a) Every insurer shall maintain with the Commissioner copies of the rates, rating plans, rating systems, underwriting rules, and policy or bond forms used by it. The maintenance of rates, rating plans, rating systems, underwriting rules, and policy or bond forms with the Commissioner by a licensed rating organization of which an insurer is a member or subscriber will be sufficient compliance with this Code section for any insurer maintaining membership or subscriberships in such organization, to the extent that the insurer uses the rates, rating plans, rating systems, underwriting rules, and policy or bond forms of such organization; provided, however, that the Commissioner, when he or she deems it necessary, without compliance with the rule-making procedures of this title or Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act":
  (1) May require any domestic, foreign, and alien insurer to file the required rates, rating plans, rating systems, underwriting rules, and policy or bond forms used independent of any filing made on its behalf or as a member of a licensed rating organization, as the Commissioner shall deem to be necessary to ensure compliance with the standards of this chapter and Code Section 34-9-130 and for the best interests of the citizens of this state;
  (2) Shall require each domestic, foreign, and alien insurer, writing or authorized to write workers' compensation insurance in this state, to file such insurer's own individual rate filing for rates to be charged for workers' compensation insurance coverage written in this state. Such rates shall be developed and established based upon each individual insurer's experience in the State of Georgia to the extent actuarially credible. The experience filed shall include the loss ratios, reserves, reserve development information, expenses, including commissions paid and dividends paid, investment income, pure premium data adjusted for loss development and loss trending, profits, and all other data and information used by that insurer in formulating its workers' compensation rates which are used in this state and any other information or data required by the Commissioner. In establishing and maintaining loss reserves, no workers' compensation insurer shall be allowed to maintain any excess loss reserve for any claim or potential claim for more than 90 days after the amount of liability for such claim or potential claim has been established, whether by final judgment, by settlement agreement, or otherwise. This limitation on the maintenance of loss reserves shall be enforced through this Code section, as well as through Code Section 33-9-23, relating to examination of admitted insurers, and any other appropriate enforcement procedures. The Commissioner is authorized to accept such rate classifications as are reasonable and necessary for compliance with this chapter. A rate filing required by this paragraph shall be updated by the insurer at least once every two years; and
  (3) As used in paragraph (2) of this subsection, the term "excess loss reserve" means any reserve amount in excess of the reserve required by law.
(b) Any domestic, foreign, or alien insurer that is authorized to write insurance in this state must file with the Commissioner any rate, rating plan, rating system, or underwriting rule for all personal private passenger motor vehicle insurance:
  (1) For private passenger motor vehicle insurance providing only the mandatory minimum limits required by Code Section 33-34-4 and subsection (a) of Code Section 40-9-37, no such rate, rating plan, rating system, or underwriting rule shall become effective, nor may any premium be collected by any insurer thereunder, unless the filing has been received by the Commissioner in his or her office and such filing has been approved by the Commissioner or a period of 45 days has elapsed from the date such filing was received by the Commissioner during which time such filing has not been disapproved by the Commissioner. The Commissioner shall be authorized to extend such 45 day period by no more than 55 days at his or her discretion. If a filing is disapproved, notice of such disapproval order shall be given within 100 days of receipt of filing by the Commissioner, specifying in what respects such filing fails to meet the requirements of this chapter. The filer shall be given a hearing upon written request made within 30 days after the issuance of the disapproval order, and such hearing shall commence within 30 days after such request unless postponed by mutual consent. Such hearing, once commenced, may be postponed or recessed by the Commissioner only for weekends, holidays, or after normal working hours or at any time by mutual consent of all parties to the hearing. The Commissioner may also, at his or her discretion, recess any hearing for not more than two recess periods of up to 15 consecutive days each. In connection with any hearing or judicial review with respect to the approval or disapproval of such rates, the burden of persuasion shall fall upon the affected insurer or insurers to establish that the challenged rates are adequate, not excessive, and not unfairly discriminatory. After such a hearing, the Commissioner must affirm, modify, or reverse his or her previous action within the time period provided in subsection (a) of Code Section 33-2-23 relative to orders of the Commissioner. The requirement of approval or disapproval of a rate filing by the Commissioner under this subsection shall not prohibit actions by the Commissioner regarding compliance of such rate filing with the requirements of Code Section 33-9-4 brought after such approval or disapproval.
  (2) For personal private passenger motor vehicle insurance other than that described in paragraph (1) of this subsection, such rate, rating plan, rating system, or underwriting rule for all such personal private passenger motor vehicle insurance shall be effective 60 days after such filing and shall be implemented without approval of the Commissioner, unless an earlier effective date is authorized by the Commissioner or a later effective date is specified by the insurer. This paragraph shall apply to the entire personal private passenger motor vehicle insurance policy with limits above the mandatory minimum required by Code Section 33-34-4 and subsection (a) of Code Section 40-9-37 and shall apply to the entire personal private passenger motor vehicle policy with minimum limits if such policy has any additional nonmandatory coverage or coverages.
  (3) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection, an insurer may, but shall not be required to, file its rate, rating plan, rating system, or underwriting rule for all such personal private passenger motor vehicle insurance provided for in paragraphs (1) and (2) of this subsection under the filing process of paragraph (1) of this subsection.
(c) When a rate filing of an insurer required under paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section is not accompanied by the information upon which the insurer supports the filing and the Commissioner does not have sufficient information to determine whether the filing meets the requirements of this chapter, then the Commissioner shall request in writing, within 20 days of the date he or she receives the filing, the specifics of such additional information as he or she requires, and the insurer shall be required to furnish such information, and in such event the 45 day period provided for in paragraph (1) of subsection (b) of this Code section shall commence as of the date such information is furnished.
(d) Any domestic, foreign, or alien insurer that is authorized to write insurance in this state must file with the Commissioner any rate, rating plan, rating system, or underwriting rule at least 45 days prior to any indicated effective date for all insurance other than personal private passenger motor vehicle insurance. No rate, rating plan, rating system, or underwriting rule required to be filed under this subsection will become effective, nor may any premium be collected by any insurer thereunder, unless the filing has been received by the Commissioner in his office not less than 45 days prior to its effective date.
(e) When a rate filing of an insurer required under subsection (d) of this Code section results in any overall rate increase of 10 percent or more within any 12 month period, the Commissioner shall order an examination of that insurer to determine the accuracy of the claim reserves, the applicability of the claim reserve practices for the loss data used in support of such filing, and any other component of the rate filing; provided, however, that in the event the overall increase is less than 25 percent within any 12 month period and the Commissioner affirmatively determines that he or she has sufficient information to evaluate such rate increase and that the cost thereof would not be justified, he or she may waive all or part of such examination. In all other rate filings required under subsection (d) of this Code section, the Commissioner may order an examination of that insurer as provided in this subsection. Such examination shall be conducted in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 2 of this title. Upon notification by the Commissioner of his or her intent to conduct such examination, the insurer shall be prohibited from placing the rates so filed in effect until such examination has been reviewed and certified by the Commissioner as being complete. Such examination, if conducted by the Commissioner, shall be reviewed and certified within 90 days of the date such rate, rating plan, rating system, or underwriting rule is filed; provided, however, that if the Commissioner makes an affirmative finding that the examination may not be completed within the 90 day period, he or she may extend such time for one additional 60 day period. Any examination required under this Code section shall be conducted in accordance with Chapter 2 of this title.
(f) Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection (d) of this Code section, in the event the filing of any rate, rating plan, rating system, or underwriting rule under subsection (d) of this Code section is not necessary, in the judgment of the Commissioner, to accomplish the purposes of this chapter as set forth in Code Section 33-9-1, then the Commissioner may exempt all domestic, foreign, and alien insurers from being required to file such rate, rating plan, rating system, or underwriting rule.
(g) Filings required pursuant to this Code section shall be accompanied by a fee or fees as provided in Code Section 33-8-1.

## History

Amended by 2023 Ga. Laws 264,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2023, app. to all policies issued, delivered, issued for delivery, or renewed in this state on or after 7/1/2023.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 521,§ 33, eff. 7/29/2020.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-48, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 15,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 801,§ 4, eff. 10/1/2008.
Added by 2002 Ga. Laws 407, § 3, eff. 3/11/2002.
