# § 33-9-3. Application of chapter

(a) This chapter shall apply to all insurance on risks or on operations in this state, except:
  (1) Reinsurance other than joint reinsurance to the extent stated in Code Section 33-9-19;
  (2) Life insurance;
  (3) Disability income, specified disease, or hospital indemnity policies;
  (4) Insurance of vessels or craft, their cargoes, marine builders' risks, marine protection and indemnity, or other risks commonly insured under marine, as distinguished from transportation, insurance policies. Inland marine insurance shall be deemed to include insurance defined by statute, or by interpretation thereof or, if not so defined or interpreted, by ruling of the Commissioner or as established by general custom of the business, as inland marine insurance;
  (5) Insurance against loss of or damage to aircraft, insurance of hulls of aircraft, including their accessories and equipment, or insurance against liability arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or use of aircraft;
  (6) Title insurance; or
  (7) Annuities.
(a.1) The Commissioner may by rule or regulation establish criteria by which defined commercial risks may be exempted from the filing requirements of this chapter.
(b) This chapter shall apply to all insurers, including stock and mutual companies, Lloyd's associations, and reciprocal and interinsurance exchanges, which under any laws of this state write any of the kinds of insurance to which this chapter applies.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 139,§ 1-46, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 52,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2017.
