# § 33-9-20. Maintenance of records by organizations generally; maintenance and reporting of statistics by insurers

(a) Every insurer, rating organization, or advisory organization and every group, association, or other organization of insurers which engages in joint underwriting or joint reinsurance shall maintain reasonable records of the type and kind reasonably adapted to its method of operation, of its experience or the experience of its members, and of the data, statistics, or information collected or used by it in connection with the rates, rating plans, rating systems, underwriting rules, policy or bond forms, surveys, or inspections made or used by it so that the records will be available at all reasonable times to enable the Commissioner to determine whether the organization, insurer, group, or association and, in the case of an insurer or rating organization, every rate, rating plan, and rating system made or used by it complies with this chapter as applicable to it. The maintenance of the records in the office of a licensed rating organization of which an insurer is a member or subscriber will be sufficient compliance with this Code section for any insurer maintaining membership or subscribership in the organization to the extent that the insurer uses the rates, rating plans, rating systems, or underwriting rules of the organization. Such records shall be maintained in an office within this state and shall be made available for examination or inspection by the Commissioner at any time.
(b) Each insurer shall maintain statistics under statistical plans compatible with the rating plans used. An insurer shall report its statistics through a recognized statistical agency or advisory organization. No insurer shall be required to report its statistics through such agencies or organizations with respect to any unique or unusual risks or with respect to any risks rated in accordance with Code Section 33-9-32 or any lines or sublines of insurance for which such agencies or organizations do not promulgate rates or rating systems. Moreover, the Commissioner shall withhold from public inspection any proprietary information of any insurer, agency, or organization.
