# § 33-9-40.2. Workers' compensation insurance premium discount for insured with drug-free workplace program

(a) For each policy of workers' compensation insurance issued or renewed in the state on and after July 1, 1993, there shall be granted by the insurer not less than a 7 1/2 percent reduction in the premium for such policy if the insured has been certified by the State Board of Workers' Compensation as having a drug-free workplace program which complies with the requirements of Article 11 of Chapter 9 of Title 34 and has notified its insurer in writing of such certification.
(b) The premium discount provided by this Code section shall be applied to an insured's policy of workers' compensation insurance pro rata as of the date the insured receives certification by the State Board of Workers' Compensation and shall continue for as long as the insured maintains the certification as having a drug-free workplace; provided, however, that an insurer shall not be required to credit the actual amount of the premium discount to the account of the insured until the final premium audit under such policy. Certification by an insured shall be required for each year in which such premium discount is granted.
(c) The workers' compensation insurance policy of an insured shall be subject to an additional premium for the purposes of reimbursement of a previously granted premium discount and to cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the policy if it is determined by the State Board of Workers' Compensation that such insured misrepresented the compliance of its drug-free workplace program with the provisions of Article 11 of Chapter 9 of Title 34.
(d) Each insurer shall make an annual report to the rating and statistical organization designated by the Commissioner pursuant to this chapter illustrating the total dollar amount of drug-free workplace premium credit. Standard earned premium figures reported pursuant to this subsection on the aggregate calls for experience must reflect the effects of such credits. The net standard premium will then be the basis of any premium adjustment. The drug-free workplace credits must be reported under a unique classification code or unit statistical reports submitted to the rating and statistical organization designated by the Commissioner pursuant to this chapter.
(e) The Commissioner shall conduct a study to determine the impact of this chapter on reducing workers' compensation losses and on the impact of the premium credit provided pursuant to this Code section in encouraging employers to implement and maintain the program for which the credit is provided.
(f) The Commissioner shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations necessary for the implementation and enforcement of this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 33, eff. 4/14/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 378,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
