# § 33-9-40.3. Employers to provide work based learning opportunities for students age 16 and older

(a) For each policy of workers' compensation insurance issued or renewed in the state on and after July 1, 2016, there may be granted by the insurer up to a 5 percent reduction in the premium for such policy if the insured has been certified by the State Board of Education to the State Board of Workers' Compensation as a work based learning employer pursuant to Article 12 of Chapter 9 of Title 34 and has notified its insurer in writing of such certification.
(b) If granted, the premium discount provided by this Code section shall be applied to an insured's policy of workers' compensation insurance pro rata as of the date the insured receives such certification and shall continue for as long as the insured maintains the certification; provided, however, that an insurer shall not be required to credit the actual amount of the premium discount to the account of the insured until the final premium audit under such policy. Certification of an insured shall be required for each year in which a premium discount is granted.
(c) If it is determined that an insured misrepresented its qualifications for certification pursuant to Article 12 of Chapter 9 of Title 34, the workers' compensation insurance policy of such insured may be subject to an additional premium for the purposes of reimbursement of a previously granted premium discount and to cancellation in accordance with the provisions of the policy.
(d) Each insurer shall make an annual report, in accordance with guidelines established by the Commissioner, to the rating and statistical organization designated by the Commissioner illustrating the total dollar amount of the premium discounts applied pursuant to this Code section.
(e) The Commissioner shall conduct a study to determine the impact of the premium discounts provided pursuant to this Code section in encouraging employers to provide work based learning opportunities for students age 16 or older.
(f) The Commissioner shall be authorized to promulgate rules and regulations necessary for the implementation and enforcement of this Code section.

## History

Added by 2016 Ga. Laws 356,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2016.
