# § 43-39A-8. Establishment of appraiser classifications and appraisal management company registrations complying with federal law; continuing education courses; approval of instructors

(a) The board is authorized to establish through its rules and regulations such appraiser classifications and appraisal management company registrations as are necessary to comply with federal law in order to assure that Georgia has appropriate classifications of appraisers and registrations of appraisal management companies authorized to appraise in federally related transactions. The board shall also create a classification of appraiser to appraise in nonfederally related transactions and for which applicants need only to meet education standards established by the board through its rules and regulations.
(a.1) In order to qualify to become an applicant for an appraiser classification or approval, an individual shall:
  (1) Have attained the age of 18 years;
  (2) Be a resident of the State of Georgia, unless that person has fully complied with the provisions of Code Section 43-39A-9;
  (3) Have attained the level of education that the board may establish through its rules and regulations;
  (4) Have complied fully with the requirements of subsection (b) of Code Section 43-39A-14 regarding any criminal convictions;
  (5) Furnish evidence of completion of the instructional hours in any course of study the board may require through its rules and regulations; and
  (6) Stand and pass an examination administered by or approved by the board covering generally the matters confronting real property appraisers after completing the requirements of paragraph (5) of this subsection. Failure to meet any of these requirements shall be grounds for denial of classification or approval without a hearing.
(b) As a prerequisite to renewal of an appraiser classification, an appraiser shall present evidence satisfactory to the board of having successfully completed or instructed, during the immediately preceding renewal period, a board approved continuing education course or courses of not less than ten hours of in-class instruction for each year of the renewal period. No appraiser whose appraiser classification has been placed on inactive status shall be allowed to reactivate such appraiser classification unless the provisions of this subsection are met in addition to any other requirements of this chapter.
(c) The board, through its rules and regulations, shall establish standards for offering of all education courses required by this Code section and for the approval of schools and instructors to offer the education courses required by this chapter. Each approved school must comply with Code Sections 43-40-15 through 43-40-31. Each approved school must designate an individual approved by the board to act as its director and such designated individual shall be responsible for assuring that the approved school complies with the requirements of this chapter and rules and regulations promulgated under this chapter. No school approval shall be granted to a school unless the school authorizes its director to bind the school to any settlement of a contested case before the board as defined in Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Violations of this chapter or its attendant rules and regulations by an approved school shall subject the school and its director to sanction as authorized by this chapter.
(d) Failure to complete any of the educational requirements as provided in this Code section shall be grounds for denial of an appraiser classification or denial of renewal of an appraiser classification without further hearing. No fees or portion of fees paid shall be refunded if an appraiser fails to meet the continuing education provisions of this chapter.
(e) An instructor in any education course approved by the board must also be approved by the board and, where the board deems necessary, receive any special instruction that the board may require.
(f) The board may prepare and distribute to appraisers under this chapter educational material deemed of assistance in the conduct of their business. The board may prepare and distribute to the public educational material deemed of assistance to consumers engaging in business in real estate appraisals with persons classified under this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 241,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 249,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 763,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 94, § 2, eff. 5/30/2003.
