# § 43-39A-3. Georgia Real Estate Appraisers Board; membership; qualifications; recusal for conflict of interest; terms; removal; meetings; compensation

(a) There is created the Georgia Real Estate Appraisers Board, which shall consist of five members. All members must be residents of Georgia. One member shall be a public member. The public member of the board shall not be connected in any way with the practice of real estate appraisal, real estate brokerage, or mortgage lending. Four members shall be real estate appraisers who have been actively engaged in the real estate appraisal business for at least three years. In appointing real estate appraisers to the board, while not automatically excluding other appraisers, the Governor shall give preference to real estate appraisers who do not hold an active, occupational license which authorizes their work in real estate brokerage or mortgage lending activities, who do not have a financial interest in any real estate brokerage firm or mortgage lending firm, and who are not employees of real estate brokerage firms or mortgage lending firms.
(b) The Governor shall appoint the members of the board, subject to confirmation by the Senate, with consideration given to appropriate geographic representation and to areas of appraisal expertise. Any such appointments made when the Senate is not in session shall be effective until acted upon by the Senate.
(c) A member of the board shall recuse himself or herself from voting on matters in which the member has a conflict of interest. Whenever an investigation authorized by this chapter results in the board's initiating a contested case under Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," against a member, such member shall be recused from voting on such matter and may not discuss the matter with other board members or be present when the board discusses or votes on such matter.
(d) The term of each member of the board shall be five years, except that one of the successors to the two members first appointed to serve until July 1, 1992, shall be appointed to serve until July 1, 1994, and one of the successors to the two members first appointed to serve until July 1, 1993, shall be appointed to serve until July 1, 1995. In the event of a vacancy, the Governor shall appoint a person to fill such vacancy and the person so appointed shall serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(e) Upon expiration of their terms, members of the board shall continue to hold office until the appointment and qualification of their successors. The Governor, after giving notice and opportunity for a hearing, may remove from office any member of the board for any of the following:
  (1) Inability to perform or neglecting to perform the duties required of members;
  (2) Incompetence;
  (3) Dishonest conduct; or
  (4) Having a disciplinary sanction other than a citation or a letter of findings authorized by this chapter imposed by any professional licensing agency on such member's right to practice a trade or profession.
(f) The members of the board shall annually elect a chairperson from among the members to preside at board meetings.
(g) The board shall meet at least once each calendar quarter, or as often as is necessary, and remain in session as long as the chairperson shall deem it necessary to give full consideration to the business before the board. A quorum of the board shall be three members. Members of the board or others may be designated by the chairperson of the board, in a spirit of cooperation, to confer with similar boards of other states, attend interstate meetings, and generally do such acts and things as may seem advisable to the board in the advancement of the profession and the standards of real estate appraisal activity.
(h) Each member of the board shall receive as compensation for each day actually spent on his or her official duties at scheduled meetings and for time actually required in traveling to and from its meetings, not to exceed one day's traveling time, the sum of $25.00 and his or her actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of official duties.
(i) The commission shall supply staff support for the board. The commissioner shall serve as executive officer of the board. The commissioner shall be charged with the duties and powers as delegated by the board.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 744,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 763,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
