# § 43-39A-13. Power of board to regulate, discipline, and establish standards; power to enter contracts

The board, through its rules and regulations, shall have the full power to regulate the issuance of appraiser classifications and registrations, to discipline appraisers and appraisal management companies in any manner permitted by this chapter, to establish qualifications for appraiser classifications and registrations consistent with this chapter, to regulate approved courses, to establish standards for real estate appraisals, and to establish standards consistent with this chapter for appraisal management companies operating within the State of Georgia. Except for conducting an investigation as provided in this chapter, the board is authorized to enter into such contracts as are necessary to carry out its duties under this chapter; provided, however, that the board may enter into contracts to assist it in the conduct of investigations authorized by this chapter only whenever it needs special legal or appraisal expertise or other extraordinary circumstances exist. Whenever the board contracts to perform such investigative functions, any such contractor working on an investigation authorized by this chapter shall be under the supervision of the board or a duly authorized representative of the board. Any contractor used by the board shall be knowledgeable in the work area for which such contractor is retained. A contractor shall not be empowered to determine the disposition of any investigation nor to make any discretionary decision that the board is authorized by law to make. Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the board is authorized to retain all funds received as collection fees for use in defraying the cost of collection of fees required under this chapter. Any such funds not expended for this purpose in the fiscal year in which they are generated shall be deposited in the state treasury; provided, however, that nothing in this Code section shall be construed so as to allow the board to retain any funds required by the Constitution to be paid into the state treasury; and provided, further, that the board shall comply with all provisions of Part 1 of Article 4 of Chapter 12 of Title 45, the "Budget Act," except Code Section 45-12-92, prior to expending any such funds.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 241,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 552,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2010.
