# § 43-39A-25. Certain actions relating to appraisal activity as constituting crimes; cease and desist orders; fine

(a) Any person who, directly or indirectly, with the intention or upon the promise of receiving any valuable consideration, offers, attempts, or agrees to perform or performs any single act of real estate appraisal activity defined in Code Section 43-39A-2, whether as a part of an appraisal or as an appraisal, shall be deemed an appraiser within the meaning of this chapter. The commission of a single such act by a person who is required to have an appraiser classification under this chapter but who has not obtained such appraiser classification shall constitute a violation of this chapter.
(b) It shall be unlawful for any person, directly or indirectly, to engage in or conduct the business of, or advertise or hold himself or herself out as engaging in or conducting the business of, or act in the capacity of, an appraiser within this state without first obtaining an appraiser classification as provided in this chapter.
(c) Notwithstanding any other provisions of law to the contrary, the board may issue a cease and desist order prohibiting any person from violating the provisions of this chapter by engaging in the practice of an appraiser without proper appraiser classification. Such cease and desist order shall be final ten days after it is issued unless the person to whom such order is issued requests a hearing before the board.
(d) The violation of any cease and desist order of the board issued under subsection (c) of this Code section shall subject the person violating the order to further proceedings before the board, and the board shall be authorized to impose a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 for each transaction constituting a violation of such order. Each day that a person practices in violation of this chapter shall constitute a separate violation.
(e) Initial judicial review of the decision of the board entered pursuant to this Code section shall be available solely in the superior court of the county of domicile of the board.
(f) Nothing in this Code section shall be construed to prohibit the board from seeking remedies otherwise available by statute without first seeking a cease and desist order in accordance with the provisions of this Code section.
