# § 43-39A-14. Required conduct of applicants; grounds for refusal of classification, imposition of sanctions, and suspension or revocation of classification

(a) Appraiser classifications shall be granted only to persons who bear a good reputation for honesty, trustworthiness, integrity, and competence to transact real estate appraisal activity in such manner as to safeguard the interests of the public and only after satisfactory proof of such qualifications has been presented to the board.
(b)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term:
    (A) "Conviction" means a finding or verdict of guilty or a plea of guilty to a charge of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude, regardless of whether an appeal of the conviction has been brought; a sentencing to first offender treatment without an adjudication of guilt pursuant to a charge of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude; or a plea of nolo contendere to a charge of a felony or any crime involving moral turpitude.
    (B) "Felony" means any offense committed:
      (i) Within this state and deemed a felony under the laws of this state or under the laws of the United States; or
      (ii) In another state and deemed a felony under the laws of that state or the laws of the United States.
  (1.1) No person who has a conviction shall be eligible to become an applicant for a license or an approval authorized by this chapter unless such person has successfully completed all terms and conditions of any sentence imposed for such conviction, provided that if such individual has multiple convictions, at least five years shall have passed since the individual satisfied all terms and conditions of any sentence imposed for the last conviction before making application for licensure or approval; and provided, further, that if such individual has a single conviction, at least two years shall have passed since the individual satisfied all terms and conditions of any sentence imposed for the last conviction before making application for licensure or approval.
  (1.2) A person who has a conviction in a court of competent jurisdiction of this state or any other state shall be eligible to become an applicant for a licensure or an approval authorized by this chapter only if:
    (A) Such person has satisfied all terms and conditions of any conviction such person may have had before making application for licensure or approval, provided that if such individual has multiple convictions, at least five years shall have passed since the individual satisfied all terms and conditions of any sentence imposed for the last conviction before making application for licensure or approval; and provided, further, that if such individual has been convicted of a single felony or of a single crime of moral turpitude, at least two years shall have passed since the individual satisfied all terms and conditions of any sentence imposed for the last conviction before making application for licensure or approval;
    (B) No criminal charges for forgery, embezzlement, obtaining money under false pretenses, theft, extortion, conspiracy to defraud, a felony, a sexual offense, a probation violation, or a crime involving moral turpitude are pending against the person; and
    (C) Such person presents to the commission satisfactory proof that the person now bears a good reputation for honesty, trustworthiness, integrity, and competence to transact the business of a licensee in such a manner as to safeguard the interest of the public.
  (2) Where an applicant for any classification or approval authorized by this chapter has been convicted in a court of competent jurisdiction of this state or any other state of the offense of forgery, embezzlement, obtaining money under false pretenses, theft, extortion, or conspiracy to defraud or other like offense or offenses or has been convicted of a felony, a sexual offense, a probation violation, or a crime involving moral turpitude, such conviction in itself may be a sufficient ground for refusal of a classification or approval. An applicant for any classification or approval authorized by this chapter who has been convicted of any offense enumerated in this paragraph may be issued a classification or approval by the board only if:
    (A) The time periods identified in paragraph (1.1) of this subsection have passed since the applicant was convicted, sentenced, or released from any incarceration, whichever is later;
    (B) No criminal charges are pending against the applicant; and
    (C) The applicant presents to the board satisfactory proof that the applicant now bears a good reputation for honesty, trustworthiness, integrity, and competence to transact real estate appraisal activity in such a manner as to safeguard the interest of the public.
(c) Where an applicant or an appraiser has been found guilty of a violation of the federal fair housing law or Article 4 of Chapter 3 of Title 8 by an administrative law judge or a court of competent jurisdiction and after any appeal of such conviction is concluded, such conviction may in itself be a sufficient ground for refusal of an appraiser classification or the imposition of any sanction permitted by this chapter.
(d) Where an applicant or an appraiser has made a false statement of material fact on an application or caused to be submitted or been a party to preparing or submitting any falsified application to the board, such action may, in itself, be a sufficient ground for the refusal, suspension, or revocation of the appraiser classification.
(e) Grounds for suspension or revocation of an appraiser classification, as provided for by this chapter, shall also be grounds for refusal to grant an appraiser classification.
(f) The conduct provided for in subsections (a) through (d) and subsection (h) of this Code section which relates to the denial of an appraiser classification to an applicant shall also be grounds for the imposition of any sanction permitted by this chapter when the conduct is that of an appraiser.
(g) Whenever the board initiates an investigation as provided in Code Section 43-39A-22 to determine whether an appraiser has violated any provision of this chapter or the rules and regulations adopted pursuant to this chapter and such appraiser:
  (1) Surrendered or surrenders an appraiser classification to the board;
  (2) Allowed or allows an appraiser classification to lapse due to failure to meet education requirements provided by law; or
  (3) Allowed or allows an appraiser classification to lapse due to failure to pay any required fees, the board may issue an order revoking such appraiser's classification. The order shall be effective ten days after the order is served on the appraiser unless the appraiser makes a written request for a hearing before the board, in which event, the board shall file a notice of hearing in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Service shall be accomplished as provided for in Code Section 43-39A-21.
(h) Whenever any occupational licensing body of this state or any other state has disciplined any license or classification of an applicant for any appraiser classification or whenever such an applicant has allowed a license or classification to lapse or has surrendered a license or classification to any occupational licensing body of this state or any other state after that occupational licensing body has initiated an investigation or a disciplinary process regarding such applicant's licensure or classification, such discipline, lapsing, or surrender in itself may be a sufficient ground for refusal of an appraiser classification. Whenever any occupational licensing body of this state or any other state has revoked the license or classification of an applicant for a classification or whenever such an applicant has allowed a license or classification to lapse or has surrendered a license or classification to any occupational licensing body of this state or any other state after that body has initiated an investigation or a disciplinary process regarding such applicant's license or classification, the board may issue an appraiser classification only if:
  (1) At least five years have passed since the date that the applicant's occupational registration, license, or certification was revoked or surrendered;
  (2) No criminal charges are pending against the applicant at the time of application; and
  (3) The applicant presents to the board satisfactory proof that the applicant now bears a good reputation for honesty, trustworthiness, integrity, and competence to transact real estate appraisal activity in such a manner as to safeguard the interests of the public.
(i) Whenever any appraiser is convicted of any offense enumerated in subsection (b) of this Code section, such appraiser shall notify the board of that conviction within ten days from the date of the conviction. Such appraiser's appraiser classification may be revoked by the board 60 days after the conviction unless the appraiser has made a written request to the board for a hearing during that 60 day period. Following any such hearing, the board in its discretion may impose upon such appraiser any disciplinary action or sanction permitted by this chapter or impose no disciplinary action or sanction. If an appraiser fails to make a written request for a hearing during the 60 day period after the conviction, then the board, upon discovery of the conviction, shall have the option of revoking the appraiser's appraiser classification without the appraiser being entitled to a hearing or the board in its discretion may impose upon such appraiser any other disciplinary action or sanction permitted by this chapter or impose no disciplinary action or sanction.
(j) Where an applicant or licensee has been found not in compliance with an order for child support as provided in Code Section 19-6-28.1 or 19-11-9.3, such action shall be sufficient grounds for refusal of a license or suspension of a license. For purposes of this subsection, the hearing and appeal procedures provided for in such Code sections shall be the only such procedures required under this article.
(k) Where an applicant or licensee has been certified by any entity of the federal government for nonpayment or default or breach of a repayment or service obligation under any federal educational loan, loan repayment, or service conditional scholarship program, such finding shall not be grounds for refusal of a license or suspension of a license.
(l) Where the board has previously sanctioned any applicant for a classification under Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," such sanction may in itself be a sufficient ground for refusing the classification.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 399,§ 2-39, eff. 6/30/2024.
Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 146,§ 1-17, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2017 Ga. Laws 40,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2017.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 744,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2012.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 43, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2008 Ga. Laws 471,§ 43, eff. 5/12/2008.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 249,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2007.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 94, § 3, eff. 5/30/2003.
