# § 43-39A-21. Hearings on imposition of sanctions against appraisers; judicial review

(a) Before the board shall impose on any appraiser or appraisal management company any sanction permitted by this chapter, it shall provide an opportunity for a hearing for such appraiser or appraisal management company in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Unless otherwise agreed to by the board, all such hearings shall be held in the county of domicile of the board.
(b) If any appraiser, appraisal management company, or applicant fails to appear at any hearing after reasonable notice, the board may proceed to hear the evidence against such appraiser, appraisal management company, or applicant and take action as if such appraiser, appraisal management company, or applicant had been present. A notice of hearing, initial or proposed decision, or final decision of the board in a disciplinary proceeding shall be served upon the appraiser, appraisal management company, or applicant by personal service or by certified mail or statutory overnight delivery, return receipt requested, to the last known address of record with the board. If such material is returned marked "unclaimed" or "refused" or is undeliverable and if the appraiser, appraisal management company, or applicant cannot, after diligent effort, be located, the real estate commissioner shall be deemed to be the agent for such appraiser, appraisal management company, or applicant for the purposes of this Code section, and service upon the real estate commissioner shall be deemed service upon the appraiser, appraisal management company, or applicant.
(c) Any person who has exhausted all administrative remedies available within this chapter and who is aggrieved by a final decision in a contested case is entitled to judicial review in accordance with Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act." Notwithstanding any provision of subsection (b) of Code Section 50-13-19 to the contrary, initial judicial review of a final decision of the board shall be available solely in the superior court of the county of domicile of the board.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 552,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2003 Ga. Laws 94, § 6, eff. 5/30/2003.
