# § 43-39A-22. Investigations; subpoenas; confidentiality; access to records; publication of names of disciplined appraisers and schools; closed meetings

(a) The board may, upon its own motion, and shall, upon the sworn written request of any person, investigate the actions of any appraiser, applicant, appraisal management company, or school approved by the board. Except for investigations of applicants for appraiser classifications, investigations of allegations of fraudulent conduct, or investigations of possible violations of this chapter which have been litigated in the courts or arise from litigation in the courts, the board shall not initiate an investigation on its own motion or upon a sworn written request for investigation unless the act or acts which may constitute a violation of this chapter occurred within five years of the initiation of the investigation.
(b) Any person authorized to conduct an investigation on behalf of the board shall have access to and may examine any writings, documents, or other material which may be related to an investigation made upon the order of the board.
(c) In the conduct of an authorized investigation, the chairperson of the board or the commissioner may issue subpoenas to compel production of such writings, documents, or material on behalf of the board. After the service of a notice of hearing, the commissioner or chairperson of the board may issue subpoenas to compel production of such writings, documents, or material, either on behalf of the board or at the request of a respondent. The board or the respondent may apply to the superior court of the county in which a person disobeying a subpoena resides for an order requiring compliance. Failure to comply with such an order shall be punishable as for contempt of court.
(d) The results of all investigations shall be reported only to the board or to the commissioner and the records of such investigations shall not be subject to subpoena in civil actions. Records of investigations shall be kept by the board and no part of any investigative record shall be released for any purpose other than a hearing before the board or its designated hearing officer, review by another law enforcement agency or lawful licensing authority upon issuance of a subpoena from such agency or authority or at the discretion of the board upon an affirmative vote of a majority of the quorum of the board, review by the appraiser, applicant, or appraisal management company that is the subject of the notice of hearing after its service, review by the board's legal counsel, or an appeal of a decision by the board to a court of competent jurisdiction; provided, however, if an investigation authorized by this chapter results in the board's filing a notice of hearing or entering into settlement discussions with a member of the board, the commissioner shall immediately notify the Governor or the Governor's legal counsel of such action by the board. After service of a notice of hearing, the appraiser, applicant, or appraisal management company that is the subject of the notice of hearing shall have a right to obtain a copy of the investigative record pertaining to the hearing.
(e) Whenever the board revokes or suspends for more than 60 days an appraiser classification or a school approval or whenever an appraiser, appraisal management company, or approved school surrenders an appraiser classification or an approval to the board after the board has filed a notice of hearing, the board shall publish the name of such appraiser, appraisal management company, or approved school in its official newsletter.
(f) The board shall have the authority to exclude all persons during the board's or the staff of the board's:
  (1) Deliberations on disciplinary proceedings;
  (2) Meetings with an appraiser or an applicant or the legal counsel of that appraiser or applicant in which the appraiser or applicant seeks to settle a contested case as provided in Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act"; and
  (3) Review of the results of investigations initiated under this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2019 Ga. Laws 241,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2019.
Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 43, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 552,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 763,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2006.
