# § 43-39A-18-1. Alternative disciplinary procedures; citations

(a) It is the intent of the General Assembly to provide the board with disciplinary measures to use as alternatives to the sanctions provided for in subsection (a) of Code Section 43-39A-18. The citation and letter of findings provided for in this Code section shall not be construed as a disciplinary sanction.
(b) Whenever the evidence gathered in an investigation reveals an apparent violation by an appraiser of this chapter, the rules and regulations promulgated by the board, or a standard of conduct, the board, in its discretion, may:
  (1) Initiate the process for the imposition of sanctions, as provided for in subsection (a) of Code Section 43-39A-18 and in accordance with the hearing procedures established for contested cases by Chapter 13 of Title 50;
  (2) Issue a citation to the appraiser. Such citation, which shall be served personally or by mail, shall give notice to the appraiser of the alleged violation or violations of this chapter, commission rules, or standard or standards of conduct and inform the appraiser of the opportunity to request a contested case hearing to be held in accordance with the procedures established for such hearings by Chapter 13 of Title 50. A citation issued by the board may include an order to complete a course of study in real estate appraisal or instruction or to pay a fine not to exceed $1,000.00 for each violation of this chapter or its rules and regulations, with fines for multiple violations limited to $5,000.00 in any one citation, or both. If the appraiser fails to request a hearing within 30 days of the date of service of the citation, the order contained in the citation shall be final. The failure of an appraiser to comply with a final order contained in a citation may be cause for the imposition of a sanction on such person's classification, after notice and opportunity for a hearing; or
  (3) Issue a letter of findings to the appraiser if the alleged violation appears to have done no harm to a third party or to the public. Such letter of findings, which shall be served personally or by mail, shall give notice to the appraiser of the alleged violation or violations of this chapter, commission rules, or standard or standards of conduct. A letter of findings shall be confidential and shall not appear on the classification history of an appraiser. A letter of findings shall not be subject to a subpoena in a civil action, shall not constitute a public record or be available for inspection by the public, and shall not be disclosed to any person or agency, except as provided in subsection (d) of Code Section 43-39A-22.
(c) The board is authorized to promulgate rules and regulations to implement this Code section. Such rules may limit the provisions of this chapter and of its rules and regulations and standards of conduct which may be the basis for the issuance of a citation or a letter of findings.

## History

Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 744,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2012.
