# § 36-36-36. Requirement of public hearing; notice of time and place; persons entitled to be heard; right of property owner to withdraw consent

(a) The municipal governing body shall hold a public hearing on any application which has been determined to meet the requirements of this article. The hearing shall be held not less than 15 nor more than 45 days from the time the governing body makes a determination that the petition is valid. Notice of the time and place of the hearing shall be given in writing to the persons presenting the application and shall be advertised once a week for two consecutive weeks immediately preceding the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation in the municipal corporation and in the area proposed for annexation. Written notice of the time and place of the hearing shall also be sent by mail to the mailing address reflected in the property tax records for each property owner whose property is in the area proposed for annexation. The written notice required under this subsection shall be mailed not less than 15 nor more than 45 days before the date of the hearing required by this subsection.
(b) At the public hearing all persons resident or owning property in the municipal corporation or in the area proposed for annexation may be heard on the question of the annexation of the area by the municipal corporation.
(c) Any property owner or elector may withdraw his consent in writing postmarked or received within three business days after the public hearing required by this Code section.

## History

Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 785,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2022.
