# § 36-36-23. Annexation by a municipal corporation into an adjoining county

(a) Annexation pursuant to this article by a municipal corporation into an adjoining county in which the municipality is not already located shall be accomplished in accordance with this Code section. Within ten business days of receiving an application for annexation, the municipal corporation shall provide written notice to the county governing authority of the adjoining county of its intent to annex into the county. Such notice shall include a map or other description of the land proposed for annexation sufficient for the county to identify the location of the proposed annexation. A meeting between the county governing authority and municipal governing authority shall be held to discuss the proposed annexation if the county governing authority files a written request for such meeting with the municipal governing authority within 15 days of receipt of the notice of the proposed annexation. The requested meeting shall be held within 15 days of the request by the county unless otherwise agreed to by the county and the municipality.
(b) No municipality may annex into an adjoining county in which the municipality is not already located unless otherwise agreed to by the county governing authority of the adjoining county. Such annexation shall be deemed approved, unless the county governing authority adopts a resolution opposing the annexation within 30 days following the earlier of:
  (1) The completion of the meeting between the municipal and county governing authorities, if any, pursuant to subsection (a) of this Code section; or
  (2) Thirty days after notice of the proposed annexation from the municipal corporation to the county governing authority, if no meeting is requested by the county governing authority.
(c) In making its decision, the county governing authority shall consider the following factors:
  (1) Whether the annexation ordinance is reasonable for the long-range economic and overall well-being of the counties, school districts, and municipalities affected by the annexation;
  (2) Whether the health, safety, and welfare of property owners and citizens of the county, municipalities, and area proposed to be annexed will be negatively affected by the annexation;
  (3) Whether the proposed annexation has any negative fiscal impact on the county, school districts, and other municipalities that have not been mitigated by an agreement; and
  (4) The interests of the property owner seeking annexation.
(d) If the county governing authority disapproves the annexation, the municipal corporation may challenge the disapproval by filing a complaint in the superior court of the adjoining county into which such annexation has been proposed. The challenge shall be heard by either a judge or senior judge who is not from the circuit in which either the county or the municipality is located. If the court finds by a preponderance of the evidence that the determination by the county based upon the factors enumerated in subsection (c) of this Code section is correct, then the denial by the county shall be sustained. If the denial is not sustained, the annexation may proceed.
