# § 29-3-91. Appointment of successor conservator; notice; hearing and bond requirements

(a) The court shall appoint a successor conservator upon the resignation, death, or revocation of the letters of the conservator if the appointment of a successor conservator is in the best interest of the minor. The court shall select the successor conservator in the manner provided in Code Section 29-3-7.
(b) In the event of the resignation or death of the conservator, notice of the proceeding for appointment of a successor conservator shall be given as provided in Code Sections 29-3-80 and 29-3-81. In all other cases, notice of the proceeding for appointment of a successor conservator shall be served personally on the minor and a guardian ad litem appointed for the minor. Notice shall be given by first-class mail to the guardian of the minor, if any, and to the following relatives of the minor, in the following order of preference, who are persons other than the proposed successor conservator:
  (1) Any parent of the minor whose parental rights have not been terminated;
  (2) If there is no parent of the minor whose parental rights have not been terminated, the adult siblings of the minor; provided, however, that not more than three adult siblings need be served;
  (3) If there is no adult sibling of the minor, the grandparents of the minor; provided, however, that not more than three grandparents need be served; or
  (4) If there is no grandparent of the minor, any three of the nearest adult relatives of the minor determined according to Code Section 53-2-1.
(c) After any hearing the court deems appropriate, the court shall enter an order appointing the successor conservator and require that bond be posted in the amount set forth in Code Section 29-3-40.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 245,§ 29, eff. 5/13/2011.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 29, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
