# § 29-3-90. Appointment of temporary substitute conservator; length of appointment; powers; notice; removal

(a) Upon its own motion or on the petition of any interested party, including the minor, the court may appoint a temporary substitute conservator for a minor if it appears to the court that the best interest of the minor requires immediate action.
(b) The temporary substitute conservator shall be appointed for a specified period not to exceed 120 days.
(c) The court shall appoint as temporary substitute conservator the county guardian or some other appropriate person who shall serve the best interest of the minor.
(d) Except as otherwise ordered by the court, a temporary substitute conservator has the powers set forth in the order of appointment. The authority of the previously appointed conservator is suspended for as long as the temporary substitute conservator has authority.
(e) Notice of the appointment of a temporary substitute conservator shall be served personally on the minor. Notice of the appointment shall be served personally on the previously appointed conservator at the last address provided by that conservator to the court. Notice of the appointment shall be mailed by first-class mail to the surety of the previously appointed conservator and to the minor's guardian, if any.
(f) The court may remove the temporary substitute conservator at any time. A temporary substitute conservator shall make any report and shall give any bond the court deems appropriate. In all other respects, the provisions of this chapter apply to the temporary substitute conservator.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
