# § 29-3-30. Inventory of minor's property; plan for managing, expending, and distributing minor's property

(a) Within two months of appointment, the conservator shall file with the court and provide to the minor's guardian, if any, an inventory of the minor's property and a plan for managing, expending, and distributing the property.
(b) The inventory shall describe all the assets and liabilities of the minor and shall include a list of all the personal and real property owned by the minor and describe how the property is titled. When the inventory is returned to the court, the conservator shall swear or affirm, in addition to the usual oath on making returns, that the inventory contains a true statement of all the assets and liabilities of the minor which are known to the conservator.
(c) The plan for managing, expending, and distributing the minor's property must be based on the actual needs of the minor and take into consideration the best interest of the minor. The conservator shall include in the plan projections for expenses and resources and any proposals to change the title of any of the assets in the conservatorship estate. The plan and any proposed budget for the expenditure of funds in excess of the anticipated income from the property must be approved by the court. With each annual return filed thereafter, the conservator shall file with the court and provide to the guardian, if any, an updated plan pursuant to the provisions of this subsection.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
