# § 29-3-43. Requirement of additional bond; notice in event of sureties deficiencies; revocation of letters of conservatorship

(a) When it comes to the attention of the court, either by annual return or otherwise:
  (1) That additional personal property has accrued to the minor by descent, gift, or otherwise or that for any other reason the bond or security of the conservator fails to comply with the minimum statutory bond amount set forth in Code Section 29-3-40; or
  (2) That the bond or security is otherwise insufficient in the judgment of the court, the court shall give notice to the conservator to appear and give additional bond or security. Notice shall be mailed by first-class mail to the conservator and to the surety on the conservator's bond. If the conservator fails to comply with the notice, the court may revoke the letters of conservatorship in accordance with Code Section 29-3-82.
(b) When it comes to the attention of the court that the surety on the conservator's bond has died, become insolvent, or removed from this state or if from other cause the security becomes insufficient, the court may give notice to the conservator to appear give other and sufficient security. Notice shall be mailed by first-class mail to the conservator and to the surety on the conservator's bond. If the conservator fails to comply with the notice, the court may revoke the letters of conservatorship in accordance with Code Section 29-3-82.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
