# § 29-3-82. Suspension of conservatorship or imposition of sanctions; power of court; liability of conservator

(a) Upon the petition of any interested person or whenever it appears to the court that good cause may exist to revoke or suspend the letters of conservatorship or to impose sanctions, the court shall cite the conservator to answer the charge. The court shall investigate the allegations and may require such accounting as the court deems appropriate. The court may appoint a temporary substitute conservator to take possession of and to administer the minor's property during the investigation.
(b) Upon investigation the court may in its discretion:
  (1) Revoke or suspend the letters of conservatorship;
  (2) Require additional security;
  (3) Require the conservator to appear and submit to a settlement of accounts following the procedure as set forth in Code Section 29-3-71, whether or not the conservator has first resigned or been removed and whether or not a successor conservator has been appointed;
  (4) Reduce or deny compensation to the conservator or impose such other sanction or sanctions as the court deems appropriate; and
  (5) Issue such other orders which the court deems appropriate under the circumstances of the case.
(c) The revocation or suspension of letters of conservatorship shall not abate any action pending for or against the conservator. The successor conservator shall be made a party to the action in the manner provided in Code Section 9-11-25.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
