# § 29-3-71. Final settlements; settlement period; examination of returns and accounts by court; return of property to minor

(a) A minor who has reached the age of majority, the personal representative of a deceased minor, a successor conservator, or any interested person may petition the court for an order requiring a conservator or that conservator's personal representative to appear and submit to a final settlement of the conservator's accounts. Alternatively, the court on its own motion may issue such an order. The settlement period shall be the period of time from the commencement of the conservatorship or the end of the period covered by the last interim settlement of accounts. If the conservator fails or refuses to appear as cited, the court may proceed without the appearance of the conservator. If the conservator has been required to give bond, the surety on the bond shall be bound by the settlement if the surety is given notice by first-class mail of the settlement proceeding.
(b) A conservator, a former conservator, the conservator of a conservator, or the personal representative of a deceased conservator shall be allowed to cite the minor, the minor's personal representative, or a successor conservator to appear and be present at a final settlement of the conservator's accounts and discharge from liability in the manner provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section. The settlement period shall be the period of time from the commencement of the conservatorship or the end of the period covered by the last interim settlement of accounts. Notice by first-class mail of the settlement proceeding must be given to the surety on the conservator's bond and to the minor's guardian, if any. If the minor has not reached 18 years of age or if the conservator is the minor's personal representative, the court shall appoint a guardian ad litem for the minor who shall be served personally.
(c) Upon the return of a notice referred to in subsections (a) and (b) of this Code section, the court shall proceed to examine all returns and accounts of the conservator during the settlement period and to hear any objection to the settlement and discharge.
(d) The court shall order any property in the hands of the conservator to be delivered to the minor, the minor's personal representative, or to the successor conservator and shall issue a judgment, writ of fieri facias, and execution thereon for any sums found to be due from the conservator. If the court is satisfied that the conservator has faithfully and honestly discharged the office, an order shall be entered releasing and discharging the conservator from all liability.
(e) When a minor ward for whom the county administrator or county guardian has been previously appointed as conservator dies intestate, the conservator shall proceed to distribute the minor ward's estate in the same manner as if the conservator had been appointed administrator of the estate. The sureties on the conservator's bond shall be responsible for the conservator's faithful administration and distribution of the estate.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 766,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 19,§ 29, eff. 4/7/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
