# § 29-3-32. Investment of funds

(1) Bonds issued by any county or municipality of this state which have been validated as required by law for the validation of county and municipal bonds;
(2) Bonds issued by any county board of education under Subpart 1 of Part 3 of Article 9 of Chapter 2 of Title 20 for the purpose of building and equipping schoolhouses, which bonds have been validated and confirmed as required under Part 1 of Article 2 of Chapter 82 of Title 36;
(3) Bonds and other securities issued by this state or by the Board of Regents of the University System of Georgia;
(4) Bonds or other obligations issued by the United States government and bonds of any corporation created by an act of Congress, the bonds of which are guaranteed by the United States government;
(5) Interest-bearing deposits in any financial institution located in this state, to the extent the deposits are insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the National Credit Union Share Insurance Fund, or comparable insurance;
(6) Bonds or other obligations issued by a housing authority pursuant to Article 1 of Chapter 3 of Title 8 or issued by any public housing authority or agency of the United States when such bonds or other obligations are secured by a pledge of annual contributions to be paid by the United States government or any agency thereof, as authorized by Code Section 8-3-81;
(7) Bonds or other obligations issued by a housing authority in connection with a redevelopment program pursuant to Chapter 4 of Title 8, as authorized by Code Section 8-4-11;
(8) Reserved;
(9) Reserved;
(10) Bonds issued by the Georgia Highway Authority, pursuant to Code Section 32-10-30, as authorized by Code Section 32-10-45;
(11) Bonds or other obligations issued by a municipality or county pursuant to Chapter 61 of Title 36 or by any urban redevelopment agency or housing authority vested with urban redevelopment project powers under Code Section 36-61-17, provided that such bonds or other obligations are secured by an agreement between the issuer and the federal government in accordance with Code Section 36-61-13, as authorized by Code Section 36-61-13;
(12) Reserved;
(13) Farm loan bonds issued by federal land banks or joint-stock land banks under the Federal Farm Loan Act, 12 U.S.C. Sections 2001, et seq., and any notes, bonds, debentures, or other similar obligations, consolidated or otherwise, issued by farm credit institutions pursuant to the Farm Credit Act of 1971, 12 U.S.C. Sections 2001, et seq.;
(14) Real property loans:
  (A) Which are not in default;
  (B) Which are secured by mortgages or deeds to secure debt conveying a first security title to improve real property;
  (C) Which are insured pursuant to the National Housing Act, 12 U.S.C. Sections 1701, et seq.; and
  (D) With respect to which loans, on or after default, pursuant to such insurance, debentures in at least the full amount of unpaid principal are issuable, which debentures are fully and unconditionally guaranteed both as to principal and interest by the United States; and
(15) Any other investments which are designated under the laws of this state as lawful or legal investments for guardians or conservators.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 609,§ 3-3, eff. 5/6/2024.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 33,§ 29, eff. 4/24/2013.
Amended by 2012 Ga. Laws 684,§ 29, eff. 5/1/2012.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 506,§ 14, eff. 7/1/2010.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
