# § 29-3-10. Requirements of order granting conservatorship; required filing of certificate

(a) An order granting conservatorship shall specify:
  (1) The name of the conservator and the basis for the selection;
  (2) A specific listing of any of the additional powers, as described in subsections (b) and (c) of Code Section 29-3-22 that are granted to the conservator;
  (3) If a guardian is also appointed and if the guardian and conservator are not the same person, the reasonable sums or property to be provided to the guardian to provide adequately for the minor's support, care, education, health, and welfare, subject to modification by subsequent order of the court;
  (4) If the minor has an interest in real property, the name of the county in which the real property is located; and
  (5) Such other and further provisions of the conservatorship as the court shall determine to be in the best interest of the minor, stating the reasons therefor.
(b) In any case involving the appointment of a conservator, if the minor has an interest in real property, the court shall file, within 30 days of granting the petition for conservatorship, a certificate with the clerk of the superior court of each county in this state in which the minor owns real property, which shall be recorded in the deed records of the county and indexed under the name of the minor in the grantor index. The certificate shall set forth the name of the minor, the expiration date of the conservatorship, the date of the order granting the conservatorship, and the name of the conservator. The certificate shall be accompanied by the same fee required for filing deeds with the clerk of the superior court. The filing fee and any fee for the certificate shall be taxed as costs to the estate.

## History

Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 460, § 1, eff. 7/1/2005.
