# § 48-5A-1. Definitions

(1) "Applicable rollback" means a:
  (A) Rollback of an ad valorem tax millage rate pursuant to subsection (a) of Code Section 48-8-91 in a county or municipality that levies a local option sales tax;
  (B) Rollback of an ad valorem tax millage rate pursuant to subparagraph (c)(2)(C) of Code Section 48-8-104 in a county or municipality that levies a homestead option sales tax;
  (C) Subtraction from an ad valorem millage rate pursuant to Code Section 20-2-334 in a local school system that receives a state school tax credit;
  (D) Reduction of an ad valorem tax millage rate pursuant to the development of a service delivery strategy under Code Section 36-70-24; and
  (E) Reduction of an ad valorem tax millage rate pursuant to paragraph (2) of subsection (a) of Code Section 33-8-8.3 in a county that collects insurance premium tax.
(2) "County millage rate" means the net ad valorem tax millage rate, after deducting applicable rollbacks, levied by a county for county purposes and applying to forest land conservation use properties in the county, including any millage levied for those special districts reported on the 2004 ad valorem tax digest certified to and received by the commissioner on or before December 31, 2004, but not including any millage levied for purposes of bonded indebtedness and not including any millage levied on behalf of a county school district for educational purposes.
(3) "Fiscal authority" means the individual authorized to collect ad valorem taxes for a county or municipality which levies ad valorem taxes.
(4) "Forest land conservation use property" means a forest land conservation use property qualified for special assessment and taxation under Code Section 48-5-7.7 and Article VII, Section I, Paragraph III(f) of the Constitution.
(5) "Forest land conservation use value" means the same as such term is defined in paragraph (5) of Code Section 48-5-2 and shall not include the value of standing timber on such property.
(6) "Forest land fair market value" means the same as such term is defined in paragraph (6) of Code Section 48-5-2.
(7) "Municipal millage rate" means the net ad valorem tax millage rate, after deducting applicable rollbacks, levied by a municipality for municipal purposes and applying to forest land conservation use properties in the municipality, including any millage levied for those special tax districts reported on the 2004 City and Independent School Millage Rate Certification certified to and received by the commissioner on or before December 31, 2004, but not including any millage levied for purposes of bonded indebtedness and not including any millage levied on behalf of an independent school district for educational purposes.
(8) "School millage rate" means the net ad valorem tax millage rate, after deducting applicable rollbacks, levied on behalf of a county or independent school district for educational purposes and applying to forest land conservation use properties in the county or independent school district, not including any millage levied for purposes of bonded indebtedness and not including any millage levied for county or municipal purposes.
(9) "State millage rate" means the state millage levy.

## History

Added by 2008 Ga. Laws 464,§ 4, eff. 1/1/2009.
See 2008 Ga. Laws 464, § 5.
