# § 47-7-20. Membership of the board; manner of election; compensation and expenses

(a) To carry out this chapter, there is created the Board of Trustees of the Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund. The board shall consist of five members as follows:
  (1) The Governor or the Governor's designee;
  (2) The Commissioner of Insurance or the Commissioner of Insurance's designee;
  (3) Two active members of the fund appointed by the Governor; and
  (4) One retired member of the fund appointed by the Governor.
(b) The first members appointed by the Governor pursuant to paragraphs (3) and (4) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be appointed to take office on July 1, 1984. One of the persons appointed pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section and the person appointed pursuant to paragraph (4) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall each be appointed for an initial term of two years. The remaining person appointed pursuant to paragraph (3) of subsection (a) of this Code section shall be appointed for an initial term of four years. Thereafter, successors shall be appointed by the Governor to take office upon the expiration of the respective terms of office for terms of four years. All such members shall serve until their successors are appointed and qualified. In the event of a vacancy during the term of office of any such member, the Governor shall appoint a qualified person to fill such vacancy for the unexpired term.
(c) The Georgia State Firefighters' Association shall be authorized to submit to the Governor the names of nominees for each position on the board appointed by the Governor pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section. The Governor, in making such appointments, may consider the nominees submitted by said association, but all such appointments shall be at the sole discretion of the Governor, and the Governor shall not be required to appoint members of the board from such nominees.
(d) Members of the board shall serve without pay but all members of the board shall be reimbursed for all necessary expenses that they may incur through service on the board.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 133,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2015.
