# § 47-7-1. Definitions

(1) "Active member" means an individual who has been granted membership in the fund in accordance with the rules of this chapter and who is not an inactive member, a suspended member, a retired member, or a withdrawn member.
(2) "Board" means the Board of Trustees of the Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund.
(3) "Fire department" means a full-time fire department or volunteer fire department or a combination full-time and volunteer fire department which satisfies the following criteria:
  (A) The fire department holds a valid certificate of compliance issued by the Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Council pursuant to Article 2 of Chapter 3 of Title 25; and
  (B) The public fire suppression facilities of the fire department are ratable not less favorably than a class nine rating under standards set forth in the Fire Suppression Rating Schedule, Section I, Public Fire Suppression, Edition 6-80, Copyright 1980, published by the Insurance Services Office, a rating organization licensed by the Commissioner of Insurance, which schedule is maintained on file with the Commissioner of Insurance as required by general law and which has not been disapproved by the Commissioner, or less than a rating which the board by regulation determines is substantially equivalent under rating standards published by a rating organization licensed by the Commissioner of Insurance performing similar rating functions which standards are maintained on file with the Commissioner of Insurance and which have not been disapproved by the Commissioner. The board may require annual certification by the chief of a fire department of the satisfaction of such requirements as a condition to the eligibility of firefighters and volunteer firefighters to become members of the fund to obtain creditable service with the fund.
(4) "Firefighter" means a person who is:
  (A) A permanent, compensated employee of a fire department who in the course of his or her employment by and within a department either is a candidate for or holds a current firefighter's certificate issued under Article 1 of Chapter 4 of Title 25 and has as incident to his or her position of employment the principal duty of, and actually performs the function of, preventing and suppressing fires and who works at least 1,040 hours per year; provided, however, that such term shall not include persons whose primary responsibility is the performance of emergency medical services; or
  (B) Appointed and regularly enrolled as a volunteer with a volunteer fire department or combination full-time and volunteer fire department which satisfies the requirements specified in subparagraph (a)(1)(D) of Code Section 25-3-23 and who, as a volunteer firefighter, has and primarily performs the principal responsibility of preventing or suppressing fires.
(5) "Full-time fire department" means a full-time department, bureau, division, or other organizational unit, separately organized and administered as such, of this state or any municipality or other political subdivision thereof, which organizational unit:
  (A) Has, as an organizational unit, the principal responsibility to prevent and suppress fires; and
  (B) Is financed by public appropriation or subscription and is not privately owned. A full-time fire department includes the fire chief or chief operating officer of the organizational unit and only those employees who are under the direction and supervision of the fire chief or chief operating officer.
(6) "Fund" means the Georgia Firefighters' Pension Fund.
(7) "Inactive member" means an individual who was an active member of the fund who obtained a leave of absence in accordance with Code Section 47-7-41 and who has not withdrawn his or her dues pursuant to Code Section 47-7-60.
(8) "Part-time employment" means working at a permanent job position for less than 40 hours a week but at least 1,040 hours a year.
(9) "Retired member" means an individual who was an active member of the fund who has commenced receipt of benefits pursuant to Article 6 of this chapter or pursuant to Code Section 47-7-102.
(10) "Suspended member" means an individual who was an active member of the fund who owes at least six months of dues payments pursuant to Code Section 47-7-60.
(11) "Volunteer fire department" means a volunteer fire department staffed by firefighters, volunteer firefighters, or a combination of firefighters and volunteer firefighters, separately organized and administered as such, of this state or any municipality or other political subdivision of this state or serving any fire district therein, which:
  (A) Has the principal responsibility to prevent and suppress fires;
  (B) Is financed by public appropriation or subscription and is not privately owned;
  (C) Holds drills and meetings of not less than eight hours monthly; and
  (D) Meets the requirements imposed by Code Section 47-7-81.
(12) "Volunteer firefighter" means an individual who is appointed and regularly enrolled as a volunteer, with or without compensation, with a fire department; who, as a volunteer firefighter, has and primarily performs the principal responsibility of preventing or suppressing fires; and who satisfies the requirements specified in subparagraph (a)(1)(D) of Code Section 25-3-23.
(13) "Withdrawn member" means an individual who was an active member of the fund who has had his or her moneys refunded pursuant to Code Section 47-7-105.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 133,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 584,§ 1, effective on July 1, 2014, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law"; otherwise, this Act shall not become effective and shall be automatically repealed in its entirety on July 1, 2014, as required by subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-50.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 459,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 459,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 461,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 461,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 461,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 461,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 460,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2006.
