# § 47-7-40. Eligibility to apply for membership; transfer of Georgia Class Nine Fire Department Pension Fund

(a)
  (1) Any person employed as a firefighter or enrolled as a volunteer firefighter is eligible to make application to the board for membership in the fund; provided, however, that no person under a sentence of confinement shall be eligible for membership in the fund while he or she is incarcerated.
  (2) Upon becoming a member of the fund, a firefighter or volunteer firefighter shall receive credit only from the date of his or her becoming a member of the fund.
(b) After April 1, 1989, no person who is a member of the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund shall be eligible for membership in the fund by virtue of any employment in or appointment to a position the duties of which qualify such person for membership in the Peace Officers' Annuity and Benefit Fund.
(c) On and after July 1, 2006, the membership, assets, and administration of the Georgia Class Nine Fire Department Pension Fund created by Chapter 7A of this title shall be transferred to this pension fund, and the Georgia Class Nine Fire Department Pension Fund shall cease to exist as a separate entity. All members so transferred shall receive creditable service for all service credited under such retirement system and shall be entitled to all rights and benefits accorded to members of this retirement system.
(d) Any person who, on June 30, 2006, was an active member of the fund by virtue of holding a position other than as a firefighter, in accordance with the qualifications for membership in effect on that date, shall be entitled to remain a member of the fund; provided, however, that if such person has a break in such position that qualified him or her for membership on June 30, 2006, or any other eligible employment provided by this Code section, for greater than 30 days, that member shall be deemed a suspended member, and any future membership shall be subject to laws and regulations in effect when that member's application for reinstatement as an active member is approved.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 133,§ 7, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 496,§ 1, effective on July 1, 2014, only if it is determined to have been concurrently funded as provided in Chapter 20 of Title 47 of the Official Code of Georgia Annotated, the "Public Retirement Systems Standards Law"; otherwise, this Act shall not become effective and shall be automatically repealed in its entirety on July 1, 2014, as required by subsection (a) of Code Section 47-20-50.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 461,§ 5, eff. 7/1/2006.
Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 460,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2006.
