# § 47-7-41. Effect of withdrawal of contributions or termination of employment; inactive membership; eligibility for reinstatement; credit for time spent on leave of absence and resumption of payments to fund upon reinstatement as active member

(a)
  (1) Any active member who leaves work as a firefighter or volunteer firefighter, and who elects to leave in the fund during such leave from work as a firefighter or voluntary firefighter the dues which the member has theretofore paid, shall, upon application to the board, be entitled to obtain a leave of absence from the fund for a period of not more than two years and shall be deemed an inactive member. An inactive member may apply for additional leaves of absence from the fund every two years. If an inactive member fails to apply for and maintain in effect a leave of absence, the board may treat such failure as an election to withdraw from membership in the fund as provided in subsection (b) of this Code section and Code Section 47-7-105.
  (2) An inactive member shall, upon application to the board, be entitled to reinstatement as an active member; provided, however, that upon such application, the applicant meets the requirements set forth in Code Section 47-7-40 as a prerequisite to reinstated active membership. Such a reinstated active member shall be entitled to credit for service rendered before obtaining a leave of absence and after reinstatement but shall not be entitled to credit for any period during such leave of absence.
(b) Any member may at any time elect to withdraw from membership in the fund and upon such withdrawal shall be entitled to a refund of moneys as provided in Code Section 47-7-105, and such member shall be deemed a withdrawn member. Any withdrawn member shall not thereafter be eligible for membership or benefits except upon reinstatement to active membership in accordance with this subsection. Any withdrawn member may make application to the board for reinstatement as an active member. Upon making such application, the applicant must pay to the fund a reinstatement fee of $100.00. An applicant for reinstatement of membership in the fund as provided in this subsection shall not be entitled to such reinstatement unless at the time of such application the applicant meets the requirements set forth in Code Section 47-7-40. Upon reinstatement, such reinstated active member shall be entitled to credit for service rendered after reinstatement as an active member but not for service prior to the date of reinstatement. Any such applicant who fails to satisfy the requirements of reinstatement shall not be entitled to reinstatement as an active member.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 133,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2015.
