# § 47-7-81. Effect of failure of volunteer fire department to hold required drills; effect of volunteer firefighter's failure to meet attendance requirements

(a)
  (1) The board is authorized to prescribe the minimum monthly and annual number of hours of drills and meetings required to be conducted by a volunteer fire department as a condition to qualification of service by a firefighter or volunteer firefighter with such department for credit toward retirement and other benefits under this chapter.
  (2) Any volunteer fire department which fails to hold at least eight hours of drills and meetings per month for three months in any calendar year or such greater requirements as may be established by the board shall not be classified as a volunteer fire department for such calendar year, and the members of such department shall not be entitled to receive credit for service during such calendar year. Such members shall be entitled to a refund of 95 percent of the dues paid during such period.
(b)
  (1) The board is authorized to prescribe the monthly and annual percentage of attendance at drills, meetings, and fires necessary for volunteer firefighters to receive credit for service toward retirement and other benefits under this chapter and to establish the form of reports required to be filed with the board concerning such matters and the time within which such reports must be filed with the board. In no case shall the annual percentage be set by the board at less than 50 percent of all drills, meetings, and fires in any calendar year.
  (2) Any volunteer firefighter who fails to meet the attendance requirements relative to drills, meetings, and fires in this Code section, or such greater requirement as may be established by the board for the calendar year shall not be granted credit for such year's service; and, in the event the member has paid any dues into the fund for such period, the member shall be entitled to a refund of 95 percent of such dues so paid.
(c) The board is authorized to prescribe the monthly and annual hourly requirements in conjunction with the Georgia Firefighter Standards and Training Council necessary to receive credit for service toward retirement and other benefits under this chapter and to establish the form of reports required to be filed with the board concerning such matters and the time within which such reports must be filed with the board. In no case shall the average weekly hourly requirement be less than 20 hours per week for any calendar year.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 461,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2006.
