# § 47-7-60. Dues required of active members; effect of failure to pay dues in timely manner; suspended membership

(a) Each active member shall pay to the fund the sum of $25.00 for each month of service as a firefighter or volunteer firefighter in a fire department. Such monthly payments shall be due on or before the tenth day of each month of service.
(b)
  (1) Any active member who becomes six months in arrears in making such payments shall be deemed a suspended member.
  (2) A suspended member may make application to the board for reinstatement as an active member. As a condition of such reinstatement, the applicant must pay to the fund a reinstatement fee of $100.00. Upon such reinstatement as an active member, such member shall be entitled to credit for service rendered after reinstatement. If such member has not withdrawn the dues he or she paid to the fund prior to becoming a suspended member, then he or she shall be entitled to creditable service for service rendered prior to his or her becoming a suspended member. A suspended member who applies for reinstatement as an active member shall not be entitled to reinstatement unless at the time of such application the applicant meets the requirements set forth in Code Section 47-7-40.
(c) If a suspended member who has attained the minimum service credits required for a normal retirement benefit under Code Section 47-7-100 is not reinstated as an active member, then, provided that such member does not withdraw dues paid to the fund, such member shall be entitled to a normal retirement benefit payable under Code Section 47-7-100. The normal retirement benefit to which such member may thereafter become entitled upon termination of service shall be calculated as of the date of the member's suspension from the fund, using the service credits and age the member had attained on the date of suspension, which shall be deemed to be the youngest age at which early retirement benefits may commence or such greater age as the member has actually attained on that date, and the maximum monthly benefit in effect on such date of becoming a suspended member.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 133,§ 9, eff. 7/1/2015.
Amended by 2013 Ga. Laws 238,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2013.
