# § 47-7-126. Penalty for false statements or falsified records; correction of errors by the board

(a) Any person who knowingly makes any false statements or falsifies or permits to be falsified any records of the fund in an attempt to defraud the fund shall be guilty of a misdemeanor of a high and aggravated nature and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $2,000.00, imprisonment for up to 12 months, or both.
(b) On and after July 1, 2015, if the board finds, after notice and opportunity for a hearing conducted in accordance with the procedure for contested cases under Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act," that any person on or after July 1, 2015, has knowingly:
  (1) Made a material false statement or falsified or permitted to be falsified any records of the fund or documents of the fund in an attempt to defraud the fund;
  (2) Obtained or continued membership in the fund while not eligible to become or remain a member of the fund;
  (3) Obtained benefits that he or she is not entitled to receive; or
  (4) Obtained benefits in an amount greater than he or she is entitled to receive, the board may order that such person shall forfeit all rights and benefits that he or she may be entitled to under the fund. Any person who is aggrieved or adversely affected by a final action of the board under this subsection shall have the right of judicial review in the superior courts.
(c) If any change or error in the records of the fund results in any member or beneficiary receiving from it more or less than such member or beneficiary would have been entitled to receive had the records been correct, the board shall have the power to correct such error and to adjust the payments as far as is practicable and in such manner that the actuarial equivalent of any additional benefit to which such member or beneficiary was correctly entitled shall be paid or in such manner that any excess payment shall be recovered.

## History

Amended by 2015 Ga. Laws 133,§ 12, eff. 7/1/2015.
