# § 8-3-306. Commission established; membership

(a)
  (1) There is established the State Housing Trust Fund for the Homeless Commission which shall consist of nine members. Two of the nine members shall be the commissioner of community affairs, or his or her designee, and either the chairperson of the Board of Community Affairs or a member of the Board of Community Affairs designated by the chairperson. The Governor shall appoint three of the public members and the Lieutenant Governor and the Speaker of the House of Representatives shall each appoint two of the public members. The public members shall be knowledgeable in the area of housing and, to the extent practicable, shall represent diverse housing concerns.
  (2) Public members shall serve for a term of four years except that initial appointments shall be staggered as follows: three of the appointees shall serve an initial term of four years and four of the appointees shall serve an initial term of two years. Public members shall continue in office until their successors have been appointed and qualified. In the event of a vacancy in the office of a public member by death, resignation, or otherwise, the Governor shall appoint a successor to serve the balance of the unexpired term.
  (3) Membership on the commission does not constitute public office, and no member shall be disqualified from holding public office by reason of his or her membership.
(b) The commission shall elect a chairperson who shall serve in that position for a term of two years. The commission shall elect such other officers and appoint committees as it deems appropriate.
(c) The commission shall hire no staff but shall contract with the Department of Community Affairs for professional, technical, and clerical support from the Department of Community Affairs as required. In the event that the Department of Community Affairs is unable to provide the professional, technical, or clerical services required, the commission may hire outside consultants on a specified project basis.
(d) Any and all appropriations made to the trust fund pursuant to the general appropriations Act or the supplemental appropriations Act shall be directed through the Department of Community Affairs. The commission shall submit its budget to and through the Department of Community Affairs.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 413,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
