# § 8-3-52. Disclosure and abstention requirements for interested commissioners and employees

(a) No commissioner or employee of the authority shall voluntarily acquire any interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract or proposed contract in connection with any project. Where the acquisition is not voluntary, such commissioner or employee shall immediately disclose such interest in writing to the authority and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the authority. Upon such disclosure, such commissioner or employee shall not participate in any action by the authority involving such project, property, or contract, respectively.
(b) If any commissioner or employee of the authority previously owned or controlled an interest, direct or indirect, in any project or in any property included or planned to be included in any project, or in any contract or proposed contract in connection with any project, he shall immediately disclose such interest in writing to the authority and such disclosure shall be entered upon the minutes of the authority. Upon such disclosure, such commissioner or employee shall not participate in any action by the authority involving such project, property, or contract, respectively.
(c) A commissioner shall not participate in any action concerning the employment to a remunerative position of the person who appointed said commissioner to office.
(d) In the selection of a depository for funds of the authority, any commissioner who has a financial interest in the depository under consideration shall disclose his interest and abstain from taking any part in the consideration of or voting on the selection of the depository.
(e) Any violation of this Code section shall constitute misconduct in office.
(f) This Code section shall not be applicable to the acquisition of any interest in notes or bonds of the authority issued in connection with any project, or to the execution of agreements by banking institutions for the deposit or handling of funds in connection with a project, or to agreements by such institutions to act as trustee under any trust indenture.
