# § 8-3-209. Investigations; conciliation agreements; final report; breach of conciliation agreement; disclosure; action for temporary relief; transmittal of information

(a) The administrator shall investigate an alleged discriminatory housing practice and complete such investigation within 100 days after the filing of a complaint unless it is impracticable to do so. If the administrator is unable to complete the investigation within 100 days after the filing of a complaint, the administrator shall notify the complainant and respondent of the reasons for the failure to complete the investigation.
(b) During the period beginning with the filing of such complaint and ending with the filing of a charge or a dismissal by the administrator, the administrator shall, to the extent feasible, engage in conciliation with respect to such complaint. A conciliation agreement arising out of such conciliation shall be an agreement between the respondent and the complainant and shall be subject to approval by the administrator. A conciliation agreement may provide for binding arbitration of the dispute arising from the complaint. Any such arbitration that results from a conciliation agreement may award appropriate relief, including monetary relief. Each conciliation agreement shall be made public unless the complainant and respondent otherwise agree and the administrator determines that disclosure is not required to further the purposes of this article.
(c) At the end of each investigation under this Code section, the administrator shall prepare a final investigative report containing the following:
  (1) The names and dates of contacts with witnesses;
  (2) A summary and the dates of correspondence and other contacts with the aggrieved person and the respondent;
  (3) A summary description of other pertinent records;
  (4) A summary of witness statements; and
  (5) Answers to interrogatories. A final report under this subsection may be amended if additional evidence is later discovered.
(d) Whenever the administrator has reasonable cause to believe that a respondent has breached a conciliation agreement, the administrator shall refer the matter to the Attorney General with a recommendation that a civil action be filed for the enforcement of such agreement.
(e)
  (1) Nothing said or done in the course of conciliation under this article may be made public or used as evidence in a subsequent proceeding under this article without the written consent of the parties concerned.
  (2) Notwithstanding paragraph (1) of this subsection, the administrator shall make available to the aggrieved person and the respondent at any time upon request following completion of the administrator's investigation information derived from an investigation and any final investigative report relating to that investigation.
(f)
  (1) If the administrator concludes at any time following the filing of a complaint that prompt judicial action is necessary to carry out the provisions of this article, the administrator may authorize a civil action for appropriate temporary or preliminary relief pending final disposition of the complaint under this Code section. Upon such authorization, the Attorney General may commence and maintain such an action. Any temporary restraining order or other order granting preliminary or temporary relief shall be issued in accordance with Chapter 11 of Title 9, the "Georgia Civil Practice Act." The commencement of a civil action under this subsection does not affect the initiation or continuation of administrative proceedings under this Code section and Code Sections 8-3-213 and 8-3-214.
  (2) Whenever the administrator has reason to believe that a basis may exist for the commencement of proceedings against any respondent under subsection (a) of Code Section 8-3-218 or for proceedings by any governmental licensing or supervisory authorities, the administrator shall transmit the information upon which such belief is based to the Attorney General, or to such authorities, as the case may be.
