# § 8-3-211. Procedure on filing of discriminatory housing practice complaint

(a) The administrator shall, within 100 days after the filing of the complaint, determine based on the facts whether reasonable cause exists to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, unless it is impracticable to do so or unless the administrator has approved a conciliation agreement with respect to the complaint. If the administrator is unable to make the determination within 100 days after the filing of the complaint, the administrator shall notify the complainant and respondent in writing of the reasons for not doing so.
(b)
  (1) If the administrator determines that reasonable cause exists to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, the administrator shall, except as provided in paragraph (3) of this subsection, immediately issue a charge on behalf of the aggrieved person.
  (2) The charge shall consist of a short and plain statement of the facts upon which the administrator has found reasonable cause to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, shall be based on the final investigative report, and need not be limited to the facts or grounds alleged in the complaint.
  (3) If, after investigation, the administrator determines that the matter involves the legality of any state or local zoning or other land use law or ordinance, the administrator shall immediately refer the matter to the Attorney General for appropriate action instead of issuing such charge.
(c) If the administrator determines that no reasonable cause exists to believe that a discriminatory housing practice has occurred or is about to occur, the administrator shall promptly dismiss the complaint. The administrator shall make public disclosure of each such dismissal. The administrator may not issue a charge under this Code section regarding an alleged discriminatory housing practice after the beginning of the trial of a civil action commenced by the aggrieved party under an act of Congress or a state law, seeking relief with respect to that discriminatory housing practice. After the administrator issues a charge under this Code section, the administrator shall cause a copy thereof to be served on each respondent named in such charge, together with a notice of opportunity for a hearing at a time and place specified in the notice, and on each aggrieved person on whose behalf the complaint was filed.
