# § 8-3-311. Creation of stable housing accountability programs; application process; minimum standards; approval criteria; funding

(a) With respect to stable housing accountability programs, the commission may authorize the disbursement of available money from the trust fund for any stable housing accountability program sponsored by a qualified sponsor under the terms and conditions of this article.
(b) The commission may consult, as appropriate, with persons with varied and diverse interests in housing in order to acquaint them with the trust fund and to solicit information relating to housing needs, potential stable housing accountability programs, and criteria for selection of stable housing accountability programs.
(c) On or before January 1, 2025, the commission shall develop an application process for qualified sponsors to apply for funding to operate a stable housing accountability program.
(d) On or before January 1, 2025, the commission shall publish uniform state-wide minimum standards for a stable housing accountability program. At minimum, to be certified as a stable housing accountability program, the program shall:
  (1) Provide voluntary, immediate, and stable housing to stable housing accountability program participants;
  (2) Limit the length of total residence for any person to 18 months or whenever the tenant who was the qualifying resident is able to obtain or is offered affordable housing, whichever is earlier;
  (3) Provide ongoing assistance to each resident for obtaining long-term affordable housing;
  (4) Require residents to be removed from the program if they fail to meet specified accountability measures, including sustaining an honest, good-faith effort to achieve or maintain sobriety from drugs and alcohol;
  (5) Conduct regular inspections of common areas and residential units; and
  (6) Require qualifying residents:
    (A) To show proof of U.S. citizenship and execute an affidavit verifying continuous residency in this state for the previous 12 months;
    (B) To participate in free and relevant job training and educational opportunities until such resident obtains stable employment;
    (C) To engage in an active search and apply for stable employment;
    (D) Who obtain stable employment to maintain such employment status as long as stable employment is available to them;
    (E) To participate in counseling, mental heath care, and substance abuse treatment programs, as necessary;
    (F) To submit to regular drug and alcohol testing;
    (G) To abstain from criminal activity;
    (H) Who have minor children to ensure that such children receive adequate nutrition, health care, and education; and
    (I) To submit to regular review of compliance with applicable terms and conditions provided for in this Code section for stable housing accountability programs.
(e) The criteria for approving an application shall include, but shall not be limited to:
  (1) The total number of stable housing accountability program participants who are likely to receive assistance from the proposed stable housing accountability program;
  (2) The ability of the applicant to leverage their own or other available money or in-kind services for the benefit of the proposed stable housing accountability program;
  (3) The geographic distribution of existing stable housing accountability programs;
  (4) The quality of the various forms of assistance to be offered to residents of the proposed stable housing accountability program;
  (5) The likelihood that the qualified sponsor will successfully fulfill the terms and conditions set forth in this article and the contract between the commission and the qualified sponsor; and
  (6) Any and all other factors bearing upon the advisability and necessity of the proposed stable housing accountability program.
(f) On or before January 1, 2025, the application process, minimum standards, approval criteria, and available funding for transitional housing projects shall be published and maintained on the website of the commission, which shall be hosted on the public website of the Department of Community Affairs.
(g) No funds shall be disbursed to a qualified sponsor until a contract is signed for the provision of the approved stable housing accountability program. Each contract shall require financial assurance from the qualified sponsor for full compliance with the contract.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 413,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Renumbered as § 8-3-313 by 2024 Ga. Laws 413,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
