# § 8-3-201. Definitions

(1) "Administrator" means the administrator of the Commission on Equal Opportunity created under Article 2 of Chapter 19 of Title 45.
(2) "Aggrieved person" means any person who claims to have been injured by a discriminatory housing practice or who believes that he or she will be irrevocably injured by a discriminatory housing practice that is about to occur.
(2.1) "Board of commissioners" means the Board of Commissioners of the Commission on Equal Opportunity created by Code Section 45-19-23 or a panel of three members of said board.
(3) "Complainant" means the person, including the administrator, who files a complaint under Code Section 8-3-208.
(4) "Conciliation" means the attempted resolution of issues raised by a complaint, or by the investigation of such complaint, through informal negotiations involving the aggrieved person, the respondent, and the administrator.
(5) "Conciliation agreement" means a written agreement setting forth the resolution of the issues in conciliation.
(6) "Covered multifamily dwelling" means a building which consists of four or more units and has an elevator or the ground floor units of a building which consists of four or more units and does not have an elevator.
(7) "Disability" means, with respect to a person:
  (A) A physical or mental impairment which substantially limits one or more of such person's major life activities;
  (B) A record of having such an impairment; or
  (C) Being regarded as having such an impairment, but such term does not include current, illegal use of or addiction to a controlled substance.
(8) "Discriminatory housing practice" means an act that is unlawful under Code Section 8-3-202, 8-3-203, 8-3-204, 8-3-205, or 8-3-222.
(9) "Dwelling" means any building, structure, or portion thereof which is occupied as, or designed or intended for occupancy as, a residence by one or more families, and any vacant land which is offered for sale or lease for the construction or location thereon of any such building, structure, or portion thereof.
(10) "Familial status" means, with respect to a person:
  (A) That the person is a parent of or has legal custody of one or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years and such individuals are being domiciled with such parent or legal custodian;
  (B) That the person is the designee of a parent or other person having legal custody, with the written permission of the parent or other person, and that one or more individuals who have not attained the age of 18 years are being domiciled with such person; or
  (C) That the person is pregnant or is in the process of securing legal custody of any individual who has not attained the age of 18 years.
(11) "Family" includes a single individual.
(12) "Person" means one or more individuals, corporations, partnerships, associations, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies, joint-stock companies, trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy, receivers, or fiduciaries.
(13) "Respondent" means:
  (A) The person or other entity or the state or local government or agency accused in a complaint of an unfair housing practice; and
  (B) Any other person or entity identified in the course of an investigation and notified as required with respect to respondents so identified under subsection (d) of Code Section 8-3-207.
(14) "State" means the State of Georgia.
(15) "To rent" means to lease, to sublease, to let, and otherwise to grant for a consideration the right to occupy premises not owned by the occupant.
