# § 8-3-205. Permissible limitations in sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings by religious organizations or private clubs; housing for older persons

(a) Nothing in this article shall prohibit a religious organization, association, or society, or any nonprofit institution or organization operated, supervised, or controlled by or in conjunction with a religious organization, association, or society, from limiting the sale, rental, or occupancy of dwellings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose to persons of the same religion or from giving preference to such persons unless membership in such religion is restricted on account of race, color, sex, handicap, familial status, or national origin. Nothing in this article shall prohibit a private club not in fact open to the public, which as an incident to its primary purpose or purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than a commercial purpose, from limiting the rental or occupancy of such lodgings to its members or from giving preference to its members.
(b)
  (1) As used in this subsection, the term "housing for older persons" means housing:
    (A) Provided under any state or federal program that the secretary of housing and urban development determines is specifically designed and operated to assist elderly persons as defined in the state or federal program;
    (B) Intended for, and solely occupied by, persons 62 years of age or older; or
    (C) Intended and operated for occupancy by at least one person 55 years of age or older per unit. In determining whether housing qualifies as housing for older persons under this subsection, the administrator shall develop regulations which require at least the following factors:
      (i) The existence of significant facilities and services specifically designed to meet the physical or social needs of older persons, or, if the provision of such facilities and services is not practicable, that such housing is necessary to provide important housing opportunities for older persons;
      (ii) That at least 80 percent of the units are occupied by at least one person 55 years of age or older per unit; and
      (iii) The publication of and adherence to policies and procedures which demonstrate an intent by the owner or manager to provide housing for persons 55 years of age or older.
  (2) Nothing in this article limits the applicability of any reasonable local, state, or federal restrictions regarding the maximum number of occupants permitted to occupy a dwelling. The provisions in this article regarding familial status shall not apply with respect to housing for older persons.
  (3) Housing shall not fail to meet the requirements for housing for older persons by reason of:
    (A) Persons residing in such housing as of March 12, 1989, who do not meet the age requirements of subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1) of this subsection; provided, however, that new occupants of such housing meet the age requirements of subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1) of this subsection; or
    (B) Unoccupied units; provided, however, that such units are reserved for occupancy by persons who meet the age requirements of subparagraph (B) or (C) of paragraph (1) of this subsection.
  (4) Nothing in this article prohibits conduct against a person because such person has been convicted by any court of competent jurisdiction of the illegal manufacture or distribution of a controlled substance.

## History

Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 556,§ 2, eff. 1/1/2021.
