# § 8-3-14. Consolidated housing authorities for two or more municipalities

(a) As used in this Code section, the term "municipality" means any municipality in this state.
(b) If the governing body of each of two or more municipalities by resolution declares that there is a need for one housing authority for all of such municipalities to exercise in such municipalities the powers and other functions prescribed for a housing authority, a public body corporate and politic to be known as a consolidated housing authority, which may be an existing housing authority designated by the municipalities as the consolidated housing authority or a new housing authority, with such corporate name as it selects, shall thereupon exist for all of such municipalities and exercise its powers and other functions within its area of operation as defined in this article, including the power to undertake projects therein. Upon the creation of a consolidated housing authority, any housing authority created for any of such municipalities, other than an existing housing authority designated as the consolidated housing authority, shall cease to exist except for the purpose of winding up its affairs and executing a deed of its real property to the consolidated housing authority.
(c) The creation of a consolidated housing authority and the finding of need therefor shall be subject to the same provisions and limitations as are applicable to the creation of a regional housing authority; and all of the provisions of this article applicable to regional housing authorities and the commissioners thereof shall be applicable to consolidated housing authorities and the commissioners thereof; provided, however, that Code Section 8-3-107 shall not be applicable to the consolidation of housing authorities into a designated existing housing authority; and provided, further, that the area of operation of a consolidated housing authority shall include all of the territory within the boundaries of each municipality joining in the creation of such authority; and provided, further, that for all such purposes, the term "county" shall be construed as meaning "municipality," the term "governing body" in Code Section 8-3-106 shall be construed as meaning "mayor or other executive head of the municipality," and the terms "county housing authority" and "regional housing authority" shall be construed as meaning "housing authority of the city" and "consolidated housing authority," respectively.
(d) The governing body of a municipality for which a housing authority has not been created may adopt the resolution provided for in subsection (b) of this Code section if it first declares that there is a need for a housing authority to function in said municipality, which declaration shall be made in the same manner and subject to the same conditions as the declaration of the governing body of a city required by Code Sections 8-3-4 through 8-3-6 for the purpose of authorizing a housing authority created for a city to transact business and exercise its powers.
(e) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, a consolidated housing authority and the commissioners thereof shall, within the area of operation of such consolidated housing authority, have the same functions, rights, powers, duties, privileges, immunities, and limitations as those provided for housing authorities created for cities, counties, or groups of counties and the commissioners of such housing authorities, in the same manner as though all the provisions of law applicable to housing authorities created for cities, counties, or groups of counties were applicable to consolidated housing authorities.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 211,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2021.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 118,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2007.
