# § 8-3-15. Extraterritorial operation of city housing authorities

(a) In addition to its other powers, a housing authority created for a city may exercise any or all of its powers within the territorial boundaries of any other municipality not included in the area of operation of such housing authority for the purpose of planning, undertaking, financing, constructing, and operating a housing project or projects within such municipality, provided that a resolution shall have been adopted by the governing body of such municipality in which the authority is to exercise its powers, and by any housing authority theretofore established by such municipality and authorized to exercise its powers therein declaring that there is a need for the housing authority seeking to exercise extraterritorial powers so to exercise its powers within such municipality.
(b) No governing body of a city or other municipality shall adopt such resolution unless it shall have found in substantially the following terms:
  (1) That insanitary or unsafe inhabited dwelling accommodations exist in such municipality or that there is a shortage of safe or sanitary dwelling accommodations in such municipality available to persons of low income at rentals they can afford; and
  (2) That these conditions can be best remedied through the exercise of the aforesaid city housing authority's powers within the territorial boundaries of such municipality.
(c) Any such findings made pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section shall not have the effect of establishing a housing authority for any such municipality under this article nor of thereafter preventing such municipality from establishing a housing authority or joining in the creation of a consolidated housing authority.
(d) During the time that, pursuant to any findings made pursuant to subsection (b) of this Code section, a housing authority has outstanding, or is under contract to issue, any evidences of indebtedness for a project within the city or other municipality, no other housing authority may undertake a project within such municipality without the consent of said housing authority which has such outstanding indebtedness or obligation.
(e) A municipality shall have the same powers to furnish financial and other assistance to a housing authority exercising its powers within such municipality under this Code section as though the municipality were within the area of operation of such authority.
(f) Any city housing authority operating housing projects that are outside such city and within ten miles of the boundaries of such city on July 1, 2021, shall be entitled to continue to operate such extraterritorial housing projects; provided, however, that no new housing projects outside such city shall be authorized without the governing body of the county or municipality where such housing project will be located consenting to the expansion of the housing authority's area of operation into such county or other municipality. Any such project shall conform to existing zoning classifications and land use plans of the political subdivision in which the proposed project will be located.

## History

Amended by 2021 Ga. Laws 211,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2021.
