# § 10-6B-9. When power of attorney effective

(a) A power of attorney shall be effective when executed unless the principal provides in the power of attorney that it becomes effective at a future date or upon the occurrence of a future event or contingency.
(b) If a power of attorney becomes effective upon the occurrence of a future event or contingency, the principal, in the power of attorney, may authorize one or more persons to determine in a writing or other record that the event or contingency has occurred.
(c) If a power of attorney becomes effective upon the principal's incapacity and the principal has not authorized a person to determine whether the principal is incapacitated, or the person authorized is unable or unwilling to make the determination, the power of attorney shall become effective upon a certification in a writing or other record by:
  (1) A physician or licensed psychologist determining that the principal has an impairment in the ability to receive and evaluate information or make or communicate decisions even with the use of technological assistance; or
  (2) An attorney at law, a judge, or an appropriate governmental official determining that the principal is missing, detained, including incarcerated in a penal system, or is outside the United States and unable to return.
(d) A person authorized by the principal in the power of attorney to determine that the principal is incapacitated may act as the principal's personal representative pursuant to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, Sections 1171 through 1179 of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C. Section 1320d, in effect on February 1, 2018, and applicable regulations in effect on February 1, 2018, to obtain access to the principal's health care information and communicate with the principal's health care provider.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 412,§ 22, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 186,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
