# § 10-6B-70. Form power of attorney

(1) Do what you know the principal reasonably expects you to do with the principal's property or, if you do not know the principal's expectations, act in the principal's best interest;
(2) Act in good faith;
(3) Do nothing beyond the authority granted in this power of attorney; and
(4) Disclose your identity as an agent whenever you act for the principal by writing or printing the name of the principal and signing your own name as "agent" in the following manner: (Principal's name) by (Your signature)_____ as Agent.
(1) Act loyally for the principal's benefit;
(2) Avoid conflicts that would impair your ability to act in the principal's best interest;
(3) Act with care, competence, and diligence;
(4) Keep a record of all receipts, disbursements, and transactions made on behalf of the principal;
(5) Cooperate with any person that has authority to make health care decisions for the principal to do what you know the principal reasonably expects or, if you do not know the principal's expectations, to act in the principal's best interest; and
(6) Attempt to preserve the principal's estate plan if you know the plan and preserving the plan is consistent with the principal's best interest.
(1) Death of the principal;
(2) The principal's revocation of your authority or the power of attorney;
(3) The occurrence of a termination event stated in the power of attorney;
(4) The purpose of the power of attorney is fully accomplished; or
(5) If you are married to the principal, a legal action is filed with a court to end your marriage, or for your legal separation, unless the Special Instructions in this power of attorney state that such an action will not terminate your authority.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 412,§ 19, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 186,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
