# § 10-6B-3. Applicability

(1) A power to the extent it is coupled with an interest in the subject of the power, including a power given to or for the benefit of a creditor in connection with a credit transaction;
(2) A power to make health care decisions, including, but not limited to, mental health care decisions;
(3) Any delegation of voting, management, or similar rights related to the governance or administration of an entity or business, including, but not limited to, delegation of voting or management rights;
(4) A power created on a form prescribed by a government or governmental subdivision, agency, or instrumentality for a governmental purpose;
(5) A power created by a person other than an individual;
(6) A power that grants authority with respect to a single transaction or series of related transactions involving real estate;
(7) A power given to a transfer agent to facilitate a specific transfer or disposition of one or more identified stocks, bonds, or other financial instruments;
(8) A power authorizing a financial institution or broker-dealer, or an employee of the financial institution or broker-dealer, to act as agent for the account owner in executing trades or transfers of cash, securities, commodities, or other financial assets in the regular course of business;
(9) Powers of attorney provided for under Titles 19 and 33; and
(10) As set forth in Code Section 10-6B-81.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 701,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2022 Ga. Laws 836,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2022.
Amended by 2020 Ga. Laws 508,§ 2-10, eff. 1/1/2021.
Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 412,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 186,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
