# § 10-6B-8. Nomination of conservator; relationship of agent to court-appointed fiduciary; finding of incapacity

(a) In a power of attorney, a principal may nominate a conservator of the principal's estate for consideration by the court if protective proceedings for the principal's estate are begun after the principal executes the power of attorney. Except for good cause shown or disqualification, the court shall make its appointment in accordance with the principal's most recent nomination.
(b) Unless expressly provided otherwise by the power of attorney or ordered otherwise by the court appointing the conservator, if, after a principal executes a power of attorney, a court appoints a conservator of the principal's estate or other fiduciary charged with the management of some or all of the principal's property, then the appointment of a conservator or other fiduciary shall terminate all or part of the power of attorney that relates to the matters within the scope of the conservatorship or management by another fiduciary. If such power of attorney does not wholly terminate, the agent shall be accountable to the conservator or other fiduciary as well as to the principal.
(c) If the court orders the power of attorney shall not terminate, the court may impose upon the power of attorney or agent such terms and conditions as it determines are in the best interest of the principal.
(d) A finding by a court that a principal is incapacitated for purposes of this chapter shall neither constitute a determination of nor create a presumption regarding such principal's need for a guardian or conservator under Title 29.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 412,§ 6, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 186,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
