# § 10-6B-11. Designation of coagents; role of successor agent; notification of violation

(a) A principal may designate two or more persons to act as coagents. Unless the power of attorney otherwise provides, coagents shall exercise their authority independently.
(b)
  (1) A principal may designate one or more successor agents to act if an agent resigns, dies, becomes incapacitated, is no longer qualified to serve, has declined to serve, or dies. A principal may grant authority to designate one or more successor agents to an agent or other person designated by name, office, or function. Unless the power of attorney otherwise provides, a successor agent shall:
    (A) Have the same authority as that granted to the original agent; and
    (B) Not act until all predecessor agents have resigned, become incapacitated, are no longer qualified to serve, have declined to serve, or died.
  (2) An agent who has been incapacitated for more than six months shall not resume acting as an agent pursuant to the power of attorney that created the agency during which the agent became incapacitated.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in the power of attorney and subsection (d) of this Code section, an agent that does not participate in or conceal a breach of fiduciary duty committed by another agent, including a predecessor agent, shall not be liable for the actions of the other agent.
(d) An agent that has actual knowledge of a breach or imminent breach of fiduciary duty by another agent shall notify the principal and, if the principal is incapacitated, take any action reasonably appropriate in the circumstances to safeguard the principal's best interest. An agent that fails to notify the principal or take action as required by this subsection shall be liable for the reasonably foreseeable damages that could have been avoided if the agent had notified the principal or taken such action.

## History

Amended by 2018 Ga. Laws 412,§ 8, eff. 7/1/2018.
Added by 2017 Ga. Laws 186,§ 2-1, eff. 7/1/2017.
