# § 31-45-10. Rules and regulations

(a) The Department of Public Health shall adopt and promulgate rules and regulations concerning the construction and operation of public swimming pools. The Department of Public Health shall classify public swimming pools on the basis of size, usage, type, or any other appropriate factor and shall adopt requirements for each classification. The rules shall include requirements for:
  (1) Submission and review of plans prior to construction;
  (2) Application, review, expiration, renewal, and revocation or suspension of an operating permit;
  (3) Inspection;
  (4) Design and construction including materials, depth and other dimensions, and standards for the abatement of suction hazards; and
  (5) Operation and safety including water source, water quality and testing, fencing, water treatment, chemical storage, toilet and bath facilities, measures to ensure the personal cleanliness of bathers, safety equipment, and sewage and other waste-water disposal. Public swimming pools constructed or remodeled prior to December 31, 2000, that do not meet specific design and construction requirements of the rules and regulations for public swimming pools adopted by the Department of Public Health shall not be required to comply with design and construction requirements other than requirements related to the abatement of suction hazards. Public swimming pools constructed or remodeled prior to December 31, 2000, shall comply with all other rules and regulations for public swimming pools adopted by the Department of Public Health by January 1, 2003.
(b) No single drain, single-suction outlet public swimming pool shall be allowed to operate unless a protective cover is properly installed.

## History

Amended by 2011 Ga. Laws 244,§ 6-3, eff. 7/1/2011.
Amended by 2009 Ga. Laws 102,§ 1-4, eff. 7/1/2009.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 2, § 31, eff. 2/12/2001.
