# § 36-75-4. Public safety and judicial facilities authorities created for each county and municipality; joint authority; filing with Secretary of State

(a) There is created in and for each county and municipal corporation in this state a public body corporate and politic, to be known as the "public safety and judicial facilities authority" of such county. No authority shall transact any business or exercise any powers under this chapter until the governing body of the county or municipal corporation, as the case may be, by proper ordinance or resolution, declares that there is a need for an authority to function in the county or municipal corporation and declares that such jurisdiction is at the time of such ordinance or resolution imposing a sales tax levied for the purposes of a metropolitan area system of public transportation.
(b) Any number of counties or municipal corporations or a combination of counties and municipal corporations may jointly form an authority to be known as the "joint public safety and judicial facilities authority" for such counties or municipal corporations or both. No authority shall transact any business or exercise any powers under this chapter until the governing authority of each county and municipal corporation involved declare, by ordinance or resolution, that there is a need for an authority to function and declare that such jurisdiction is at the time of such ordinance or resolution imposing a sales tax levied for the purposes of a metropolitan area system of public transportation and until the governing authority of each county and municipal corporation approves an agreement with the other counties or municipal corporations for the activation of an authority and such agreement is executed.
(c) A copy of such ordinances, resolutions, and agreements shall be filed with the Secretary of State, who shall maintain a record of all authorities activated under this chapter.

## History

Amended by 2006 Ga. Laws 453,§ 36, eff. 4/14/2006.
Added by 2003 Ga. Laws 379, § 1, eff. 6/4/2003.
