# § 32-4-22. Creation of Developmental Highway System

(a) There is created as a part of the state highway system a system of public roads to be known as the Developmental Highway System which shall consist of the following road corridors (not in order of priority):
  (1) Appalachian;
  (2) The South Georgia Parkway;
  (3) U.S. 27;
  (4) U.S. 82;
  (5) Golden Isles;
  (6) Savannah River;
  (7) U.S. 441;
  (8) Fall Line;
  (9) U.S. 319;
  (10) U.S. 19;
  (11) U.S. 84;
  (12) U.S. 1/SR 17;
  (13) SR 72;
  (14) Northern Arc further identified as the North Georgia Connector between the U.S. Highway 411 and U.S. Highway 41 interchange in Bartow County to State Highway 316 in Gwinnett County;
  (15) East-west Highway from I-59 North to I-85 North;
  (16) Truck access routes, including without limitation:
    (A) SR 133 from Albany to Valdosta;
    (B) SR 40 from Folkston to St. Marys; and
    (C) SR 125 from Fitzgerald to I-75;
  (17) SR 32;
  (18) Power Alley, U.S. 280 from Columbus to Savannah;
  (19) SR 125 from its intersection with SR 107 in Ben Hill County (Fitzgerald Bypass) to its intersection with SR 32 in Irwin County; and
  (20) SR 15 from its intersection with US 441/SR 24 at Watkinsville to its intersection with US 1 in Toombs County. Without limiting the foregoing, said system is further identified as including those roads and corridors referred to as "the Governor's Road Improvement Program" in that resolution adopted by the State Transportation Board dated November 17, 1988.
(b) The location and mileage of the Developmental Highway System shall be as generally described in subsection (a) of this Code section, with the power of the State Transportation Board to make such variances therein as shall be dictated by sound engineering and construction practices.
(c) The Developmental Highway System shall be under the control and supervision of the board, subject to the provisions of this Code section or any other Act of the General Assembly; provided, however, that the State Road and Tollway Authority is authorized to construct all or any part of such system and to enter into agreements with the department, pursuant to Code Section 32-2-61, for such purpose. Any project the cost of which is paid from the proceeds of garvee bonds as defined in Code Section 32-10-90.1 shall be, pursuant to a contract or agreement between the authority and the department, planned, designed, and constructed by the Department of Transportation or a contractor contracting with the Department of Transportation.

## History

Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 64,§ 1, eff. 4/29/2005.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 372, § 1, eff. 7/1/2001.
Amended by 2001 Ga. Laws 389, § 1-3, eff. 4/30/2001.
