# § 33-64-8. Electronic prior authorization drug requests with health care providers

(a) As used in this Code section, "electronic prior authorization" or "e-prior authorization" means a requirement that a prescriber obtain approval via electronic media from a health plan to prescribe a specific medication prior to dispensing. Facsimiles shall not be considered an electronic submission under this Code section except in the event that such electronic media is temporarily unavailable due to system failure or outage.
(b) No later than 24 months after the adoption of standards by the National Council of Prescription Drug Programs, the department shall under the direction of the Commissioner adopt standards by which the pharmacy benefits manager shall exchange standard e-prior authorization requests with health care providers for drugs and devices using electronic data interchange standards consistent with those adopted by the National Council of Prescription Drug Programs. Such standards shall support clinical workflow decision support of the physician provider.
(c) No later than 24 months after the adoption of standards by the National Council of Prescription Drug Programs, e-prior authorization requests shall be accessible and submitted by providers to pharmacy benefits managers and health plans through secure electronic transmissions utilizing the current National Council of Prescription Drug Programs electronic prior authorization standard.
(d) Nothing in this Code section shall require any health care provider to participate in e-prior authorization or electronic prior authorization in order to obtain the necessary authorization for patient care.

## History

Added by 2012 Ga. Laws 751,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2012.
