# § 33-64-3. Requirements and procedures affecting pharmacy benefits managers; surety bond

(a) Every applicant for a pharmacy benefits manager's license shall file with the application and shall thereafter maintain in force a bond in the amount of $100,000.00 in favor of the Commissioner executed by a corporate surety insurer authorized to transact insurance in this state. The terms and type of the bond shall be established by rules and regulations.
(b) The bond shall remain in force until the surety is released from liability by the Commissioner or until the bond is canceled by the surety. Without prejudice to any liability accrued prior to cancellation, the surety may cancel the bond upon 30 days' advance notice, in writing, filed with the Commissioner.
(c) Every applicant for a pharmacy benefits manager's license shall obtain and shall thereafter maintain in force errors and omissions coverage or other appropriate liability insurance, written by an insurer authorized to transact insurance in this state, in an amount of at least $250,000.00.
(d) The coverage required in subsection (c) of this Code section shall remain in force for a term of at least one year and shall contain language that includes that the insurer may cancel the insurance upon 60 days' advance notice filed with the Commissioner. Other terms and conditions relating to the errors and omissions policy may be imposed on the applicant in accordance with rules and regulations.
(e) In the event a licensed pharmacy benefits manager fails to renew, surrenders, or otherwise terminates its license, it must retain both the bond and the errors and omissions coverage for a period of not less than one year after the licensee has failed to renew, surrendered, or otherwise terminated the license.

## History

Added by 2010 Ga. Laws 549,§ 1, eff. 1/15/2011.
