# § 15-5B-4. [See Note] Chief court judge

(a) The chief court judge shall be appointed by the Governor, subject to approval by a majority vote of the Senate Judiciary Committee and a majority vote of the House Committee on Judiciary. The Senate Judiciary Committee and the House Committee on Judiciary shall be authorized to meet jointly or separately, while in or out of a legislative session, as called in the discretion of each such chairperson, with notice provided by the chairpersons to such committee members, to consider the approval of such appointment. The chief court judge may appoint up to three assistant court judges.
(b)
  (1) The initial chief court judge shall be appointed by July 1, 2025, and approved by December 31, 2025, and the chief court judge shall serve an initial term beginning on July 1, 2026.
  (2) Beginning on July 1, 2026, such initial chief court judge may perform the administrative duties required for establishing the court and, if so, shall receive compensation as a court judge beginning on such date and for such purposes.
  (3)
    (A) The chief court judge shall serve for a term of four years and may be reappointed for any number of consecutive terms so long as he or she meets the qualifications for appointment at the time of each appointment and shall be reappointed and reapproved in the same manner as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section.
    (B) Vacancies in the office of chief court judge shall be filled by appointment and approval in the same manner as provided for in subsection (a) of this Code section.
  (4) The chief court judge shall be deemed to serve the geographical area of this state.

## History

Added by 2024 Ga. Laws 601,§ 1-2, eff. for administrative purposes only on 1/1/2025, effective for all other purposes on 7/1/2026.
Amendment to Constitution to provide that Georgia Tax Court shall have state-wide jurisdiction as provided by law and that decisions of such court shall be appealed to Court of Appeals, subject to review by Supreme Court of Georgia, approved by the voters on 11/5/2024.
