# § 47-1-5. Duty of governing authorities to make and file actuarial investigations and to file financial reports; withholding of state funds for failure to meet this duty

It shall be the duty of the governing authority of each county, municipality, or other political subdivision whose employees are covered under a local retirement system and the duty of a local board of education whose employees are covered under a local retirement system to cause the actuarial investigations required by subsection (d) of Code Section 47-1-3 to be made and to cause such actuarial investigations to be filed with the state auditor as required by that subsection. It shall also be their duty to cause financial reports to be submitted to the state auditor as required by subsections (e) through (j) of Code Section 47-1-3. If a required actuarial investigation and financial report are not submitted, then within 30 days after the date on which such investigation and report were due in the office of the state auditor, the state auditor shall notify, in writing, the governing authority of the county, municipality, or other political subdivision whose employees are covered under the applicable local retirement system. If the actuarial investigation and financial report are not received by the state auditor within 60 days after the date such notice is sent to the governing authority, the state auditor shall notify the state treasurer; and it shall be the duty of the state treasurer to withhold any state funds payable to the applicable political subdivision or local board of education until the actuarial investigation and financial report are submitted to the state auditor. The state auditor shall advise the state treasurer within five days after receiving the actuarial investigation and financial report to release any state funds payable to the applicable political subdivision.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 4, eff. 7/1/2010.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 621,§ 3, eff. 7/1/2010.
