# § 47-1-80.1. Provisions applicable to all public retirement or pension systems; maximum annuity paid; limitation on death and disability benefits; application of federal provisions

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this title to the contrary, any public retirement or pension system shall be subject to the following provisions:
  (1)
    (A) Benefits shall begin by the required beginning date, which is the later of April 1 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the plan member reaches 70 1/2 years of age or April 1 of the calendar year in which the plan member terminates employment. If a plan member fails to apply for retirement benefits by the required beginning date, the applicable public retirement or pension system shall begin distribution of the benefit as required by Section 401(a)(9) of the federal Internal Revenue Code.
    (B) Notwithstanding the provisions of subparagraph (A) of this paragraph, for any plan member who was entitled to receive a benefit under the public retirement or pension as of December 31, 1996, and attained the age of 70 1/2 on or before December 31, 1998, the required beginning date shall be deemed to be April 1 following the calendar year in which the member attained the age of 70 1/2, regardless of whether the member was then employed by the employer;
  (2) A plan member's entire interest shall be distributed over the plan member's life or the lives of the plan member and a designated beneficiary or over a period not extending beyond the life expectancy of the plan member or the life expectancy of the plan member and his or her designated beneficiary;
  (3) The life expectancy of a plan member, the plan member's spouse, or the plan member's designated beneficiary shall not be recalculated after the initial determination for purposes of determining benefits;
  (4) If a plan member dies after the required distribution of benefits has begun, the remaining portion of the plan member's interest shall be distributed at least as rapidly as under the method of distribution before the plan member's death and no longer than the remaining period over which the distribution commenced; and
  (5) If a plan member dies before the required distribution of the plan member's benefits has begun, the plan member's entire interest shall be either distributed in accordance with federal regulations over the life or the life expectancy of the designated beneficiary, with the distributions beginning no later than December 31 of the calendar year immediately following the calendar year of the plan member's death or distributed by December 31 of the calendar year containing the fifth anniversary of the plan member's death.
(b) The amount of an annuity paid to a plan member's designated beneficiary shall not exceed the maximum determined under the incidental death benefit requirements of the federal Internal Revenue Code.
(c) The death and disability benefits provided by the plan shall be limited by the incidental benefit rule set forth in Section 401(a)(9)(G) of the federal Internal Revenue Code and Federal Treasury Regulation Section 1.401-1(b)(l)(i) or any successor to such regulation.
(d) Except as otherwise provided in subsection (e) of this Code section, a member or beneficiary who would have been required to receive required minimum distributions for 2009 but for the enactment of Section 401(a)(9)(H) of the federal Internal Revenue Code shall not receive those distributions for 2009 unless the member or beneficiary chooses to receive such distributions. Such members and beneficiaries shall be given the opportunity to elect to receive such distributions. In addition, notwithstanding the provisions of Code Section 47-1-81, and solely for purposes of applying the direct rollover provisions of the federal Internal Revenue Code, 2009 required minimum distributions shall be treated as eligible rollover distributions. This subsection shall also apply to required minimum distributions after 2009 if federal law is extended to include such later years.
(e) A public retirement or pension system to which subsection (d) of this Code section applies may choose a default option to pay 2009 required minimum distributions unless otherwise elected by the member, provided that the individual system adopt such a default rule for its members only in its plan documents.

## History

Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 457,§ 2, eff. 5/24/2010.
Added by 2009 Ga. Laws 275,§ 5, eff. 5/11/2009.
