# § 43-41-15. Death of contractor; notifications; completion of work

If an incomplete contract exists at the time of death of a residential or commercial general contractor, where the licensed contractor performing the work under such contract is an individual person and not a business organization acting through a qualifying agent for such organization, the contract may be completed by any person affiliated with the contractor as a co-owner, partner, employee, relative, heir, successor, or assign, even though not licensed under this chapter, subject to the terms of this Code section. Such person shall notify the appropriate division of the board within 30 days after the death of such contractor of such death and of his or her name and address, knowledge of the contract, and ability technically and financially to complete it. Such person may continue with performance of the contract pending approval by the division. If the division approves, he or she may proceed with the contract to completion. If the division does not approve completion by such person, due to a determination that he or she does not have sufficient knowledge, expertise, or financial or other required resources, the division shall give prompt written notice to the person, including the reasons for such rejection, and such person shall promptly upon receipt of such notice cease further performance of the contract. If the owner engages another person under a new contract to complete the remaining work under the original contract, such other party must be a contractor duly licensed under this chapter to perform such work. For purposes of this Code section, an incomplete contract is one which has been awarded to or entered into by the contractor before his or her death or on which he or she was the low bidder and the contract is subsequently awarded to him or her, regardless of whether any actual work has commenced under the contract before the contractor's death. If an incomplete contract exists at the time of death of a sole qualifying agent of a residential contractor or a commercial general contractor, where the contractor is a business organization licensed only under such individual as its qualifying agent, then the contractor shall proceed as provided under paragraph (1) of subsection (e) of Code Section 43-41-9.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 583,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 598, § 1, eff. only upon the effective date of an appropriation of funds as expressed in a line item making specific reference to the full funding of 2004 Ga. Laws 598 in an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly.
