# § 43-41-18. Certain military specialties or certifications entitle persons to obtain certain professional licenses

(a) As used in this Code section, the term:
  (1) "Discharge" means an honorable discharge or a general discharge from active military service. Such term shall not mean a discharge under other than honorable conditions, a bad conduct discharge, or a dishonorable discharge.
  (2) "Military" means the armed forces of the United States or a reserve component of the armed forces of the United States, including the National Guard.
(b) A committee composed of the division director, members of the Governor's Office of Workforce Development, and members of the licensing board representing the profession of residential light-commercial contracting shall determine the military specialties or certifications the training, experience, and testing for which substantially meet or exceed the requirements to obtain a residential light-commercial contractor's license. The Governor shall designate a chairperson from among the membership of the committee.
(c) Any current or former member of the military may apply to the licensing board for the immediate issuance of a license or certification based upon his or her having obtained a military specialty or certification the training or experience for which substantially meets or exceeds the requirements to obtain a residential light-commercial contractor's license. In order to qualify under this subsection, an applicant shall make application not later than 180 days after his or her discharge. Such application shall be in such form and shall require such documentation as the division director shall determine. If the applicant satisfies the requirements of this Code section, the division director shall direct the appropriate division to issue the license, and such division shall immediately issue such license; provided, however, that the applicant shall satisfy all financial and insurance requirements for the issuance of such license. This Code section shall only apply to the initial issuance of a license. After the initial issuance of a license, the licensee shall be subject to any provisions relating to the renewal of the license applicable to all licensees.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 583,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2014 Ga. Laws 669,§ 43, eff. 4/29/2014.
Added by 2013 Ga. Laws 12,§ 2, eff. 7/1/2013.
