# § 43-41-10. Reprimand, revocation, or other corrective actions authorized; issuance of stop-work orders; adoption of rules and regulations; lifting of suspension

(a) In addition to the powers and authorities conferred upon the board and its divisions pursuant to Chapter 1 of this title, the residential contractor division and the commercial general contractor division shall have the power, respectively, to reprimand any person or licensee, or to suspend, revoke, or refuse to grant, renew, or restore a license to any person or licensee if such person or licensee is found by the appropriate division to have engaged in any fraud or deceit in obtaining a license or otherwise to have engaged in gross negligence, repeated or persistent incompetence, intentional misconduct in the practice of his or her profession, or willful violation of any provisions of this chapter.
(b) For purposes of this Code section, a person or business organization operating on an expired, revoked, lapsed, or suspended license shall be considered unlicensed.
(c) The separate divisions may issue a stop-work order for all unlicensed work falling within their respective jurisdictions upon finding probable cause to believe that construction work which requires a license under this chapter is being performed by a person without such a current, valid license. Such an order may be enforced by injunctive relief, cease and desist orders, or other related actions within the power and authority of the board and its respective divisions.
(d) The division having jurisdiction shall investigate and sanction any license holder found to have engaged in fraud, deceit, gross negligence, repeated or persistent incompetence, or intentional misconduct in the practice of residential or commercial general contracting; and sanctions shall be assessed against any such residential or commercial general contractor licensed under this chapter either individually or as a business organization acting through a qualifying agent. Such charges, unless dismissed without hearing by the division as unfounded, shall be heard and determined by that division in accordance with the provisions of Chapter 13 of Title 50, the "Georgia Administrative Procedure Act."
(e) The divisions shall each adopt and publish in print or electronically rules and regulations, consistent with the provisions of this chapter, governing the suspension and revocation of licenses.
(f) Each division may reissue a license to any person whose license has been revoked or lift a suspension of a license to such person provided that four or more members of the division vote in favor of such reissuance or lifting for reasons that division deems sufficient.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 583,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2010 Ga. Laws 615,§ 10, eff. 6/3/2010.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 598, § 1, eff. only upon the effective date of an appropriation of funds as expressed in a line item making specific reference to the full funding of 2004 Ga. Laws 598 in an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly.
