# § 43-41-4. Chairperson and vice chairperson; meetings and quorums; assistance from professional licensing boards division

(a) The members of the board shall elect a chairperson and a vice chairperson, each to serve for a one-year term commencing on the first day of July each year.
(b) The office of chairperson of the board shall be rotated between the two divisions enumerated in this chapter, with the office of vice chairperson to be held by a member of the division other than that in which the chairperson serves, unless the board, through its rules and regulations, provides otherwise. Any vacancy in the office of chairperson shall be filled by the members for the unexpired term. The person selected to fill the vacancy shall be a member of the same division as the chairperson whose departure has created the vacancy.
(c) The board shall meet at the call of the chairperson or upon the recommendation of a majority of its members. Eight members of the board, including at least three members from each of its divisions, shall constitute a quorum for transaction of business by the board.
(d) Each division within the board shall also elect from its membership a chairperson and a vice chairperson who shall each serve for a term of two years. Any vacancy in the office of either the chairperson or vice chairperson shall be filled by one of the members of the respective division for the unexpired term.
(e) Any member elected chairperson of a division may not serve more than two consecutive full terms of office.
(f) Each division shall carry out its powers and duties as provided for in this chapter with the assistance of the division director and staff of the professional licensing boards division of the Secretary of State's office and the officers and staff of the board. Each division of the board shall operate and transact its business independently of the other division and of the board at large, except as required by this chapter and to the extent of common interests and functions, including staffing and administration. Each division of the board shall have delegated from the board the power and authority to take all appropriate actions in the organization and administration of each respective division and the effectuation and implementation of the licensing and enforcement processes required under this chapter, subject to ultimate oversight and review by the board.
(g) The divisions of the board shall meet at the call of the chairperson of the division.
(h) The board shall not take action on any matter specifically delegated to and under the authority and control of the one of its divisions unless at least four of its members from the affected division are present and participating in such action or decision.
(i) The division director, or his or her designee, shall keep a record of the proceedings of the board and its respective divisions.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 583,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 338,§ 2, eff. 5/29/2007.
Amended by 2005 Ga. Laws 366,§ 2, eff. 5/9/2005.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 598, § 1, eff. only upon the effective date of an appropriation of funds as expressed in a line item making specific reference to the full funding of 2004 Ga. Laws 598 in an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly.
