# § 43-41-12. Penalty for violating provisions; architect or engineer utilizing nonlicensed personnel

(a) Any person, whether an individual or a business organization, who:
  (1) Contracts for or bids upon or engages in the construction of any of the projects or works enumerated in the definitions of residential contractor or commercial general contractor in Code Section 43-41-2 without having first complied with the appropriate provisions of this chapter or who shall attempt to practice residential contracting or commercial general contracting in this state except as provided for in this chapter;
  (2) Falsely represents, advertises, or holds himself or herself or an affiliated business organization out as a residential contractor or commercial general contractor licensee duly authorized to perform work under such classification of licensure pursuant to this chapter;
  (3) Represents or attempts to use or presents as his or her own the license of another person or, in the case of a business organization, a person other than its qualifying agent;
  (4) Gives false or forged evidence of any kind to the board or its divisions or to any member of the board in maintaining a license;
  (5) Uses an expired, suspended, or revoked license to continue engaging in residential contracting or commercial general contracting;
  (6) Operates a business organization engaged in contracting after 180 days following the termination of its only qualifying agent without designating another primary qualifying agent, except as provided in Code Section 43-41-9; or
  (7) Intentionally and repeatedly misrepresents or manipulates the value or percentage of work at the time of contract under subsections (e) and (f) of Code Section 43-41-17 to avoid the licensing requirements of this chapter, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall, upon conviction, be punished for each such offense by a fine of not less than $1,000.00 or imprisonment of three months, or both fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
(b) Any architect or engineer who recommends to any project owner the award of a contract to anyone known by such architect or engineer not to be properly licensed under this chapter shall be subject to such penalties as provided in subsection (a) of this Code section and also to any appropriate disciplinary action by the appropriate division.
(c) Except as otherwise provided in this Code section, any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.

## History

Amended by 2024 Ga. Laws 583,§ 1, eff. 7/1/2024.
Amended by 2007 Ga. Laws 322,§ 7, eff. 5/29/2007.
Added by 2004 Ga. Laws 598, § 1, eff. only upon the effective date of an appropriation of funds as expressed in a line item making specific reference to the full funding of 2004 Ga. Laws 598 in an appropriations Act enacted by the General Assembly.
